Instant Gout Pain Relief With Baking Soda- By: John Cielo

Description : Looking for instant gout pain relief? Then you've come to the right place. Here, you'll discover how baking soda can bring almost immediate relief from gout pain without the need for drugs with their well-known side effects.

Baking soda can bring you more or less instant gout pain relief. And who would have suspected that something that many of us have lying in a kitchen cupboard could be such a potent weapon in the fight to get fast gout pain relief?

Not only can it act alone as an effective natural remedy for gout, but, baking soda can also help the effectiveness of the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that you doctor usually prescribes to relieve the pain of your gout symptoms.

But even without drugs you can get almost instant, certainly fast, gout pain relief using baking soda (bicarbonate of soda) because of its several benefits such as:-

- an increase in body fluids that help your kidneys to flush uric acid out of your system
- improved uric acid solubility for easier excretion from the body
- dissolution of uric acid crystals to help reduce the pain

You need to add half of a teaspoon of baking soda to 8 ounces of water in a large glass. Drink a glass immediately before going to bed, and, first thing on getting up. Drink a further glass every 2 to 4 hours between meals. If need be, follow this routine daily until your symptoms disappear.

Be careful not to take more than 4 teaspoons of baking soda in any 24 hour period. And, because baking soda is very high in sodium you need to go on to a very low sodium diet, or better still, cut-out salt from your diet altogether.

Also, if you suffer from high blood pressure -- hypertension -- talk to your doctor before using this remedy. It is a good idea to talk to your doctor about this treatment in any case.

Many gout sufferers have experienced very fast gout pain relief with this method. But, there are a number of other things you have to consider in terms of getting rid of your gout. For example, your weight, diet, lifestyle, family history, etc.

And if you continue to suffer frequently recurring gout, there is a danger of permanent joint damage and kidney problems over time. Plus, of course, once having suffered a gout attack, you're now much more likely to have more.

You're in luck though. There's a special gout report available online [see below] that has all the information you need in one place. It is what thousands of ex-gout victims worldwide have successfully used to prevent their gout returning. It also contains a special 2 hour gout pain relief program.

And it uses fully-researched, totally natural methods. So that you benefit two ways: (1) you get rid of your excruciating pain very fast, and, (2) you prevent your gout returning, so that you reduce the risk of permanent damage.

Article Source : http://www.articles-galore.com/ (http://www.articles-galore.com/)

Author Resource : If you want to get gout pain relief in 2 hours (http://gout-relief-today.blogspot.com/) , plus, prevent your gout returning in the future, then go to http://gout-relief-today.blogspot.com (http://gout-relief-today.blogspot.com/) and discover how you can quickly do both without expensive drugs with their horrible side effects.







[ Close ]
  [ Print ]