AASLD: American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (/)
 (#)
Your network for the investigation and treatment of liver diseases Home (http://www.aasld.org/Pages/Default.aspx)  | About Us (/aboutus/Pages/default.aspx)  | Patients (/patients/Pages/default.aspx)  | Worksites (http://sig.aasld.org/)  | Log In/Out (/)
 

AASLD President-Elect Jake Liang Discusses 2010 Postgraduate Course 
|

By Morgan Fincham, AASLD Staff

T. Jake Liang, MD, 2010 AASLD President-Elect, is currently a tenured senior investigator and Chief of the Liver Diseases Branch, NIDDK, NIH. As Course Director, along with Norah Terrault, MD, and Adrian M. Di Bisceglie, MD, Dr. Liang shares insight into The Liver Meeting® 2010’s Postgraduate Course Viral Hepatitis: Five Decades of Progress and Promises for the Future.

Since viral hepatitis is the most common cause of acute and chronic liver disease in the world, with over half of the global population having exposure and 400 - 500 million people suffering from chronic liver disease from viral hepatitis, this is an extremely relevant topic to many. Because viral hepatitis is such a substantial component in the field of hepatology, expected attendees include basic scientists, clinicians, mid-level health care providers, research nurses, trainees, students, industry professionals and non-hepatology specialists from the fields of infectious disease, virology, immunology, oncology, and pediatrics. The AASLD Governing Board and Education Committee sought a more focused program in 2010; this Postgraduate Course is the result.

The one and a half day course will cover current knowledge in basic and clinical sciences of the various forms of viral hepatitis. Important advances in the basic sciences of virology, cell biology, immunology, vaccine development, and antiviral therapeutics will be discussed, as well as the clinical topics of natural history, epidemiology, clinical management, prevention, and therapy. Current strategies to prevent and treat viral hepatitis and related liver disease will be highlighted.

“Viral hepatology has been a game changer in hepatology.” Dr. Liang succinctly encompasses the first session “Viral Hepatitis: the Past, Present and Future.” Dr. Harvey Alter will build the foundation of the course, laying out the history of viral hepatitis with stories of how each virus was discovered.

The course then moves on to the well-known hepatitis B virus. “Significant inroads have been made into preventing and treating the infection,” Dr. Liang  (/lm/program/Pages/PostGraduateCourse.aspx) cautions, “but there are a lot of remaining challenges.” The second session “Hepatitis B and D: The Changing Face of the Infection and Disease” will compare practice 10 – 15 years ago to that of today, with the development of an effective vaccine and many treatment options. The remaining question is how we can expand these medical advances to positively impact public health, as hepatitis D is a less common problem with no standardized treatment protocol. A case study/debate will be presented to discuss controversial issues in hepatitis B. Dr. Liang is very excited about this new feature in this year’s course.

“Enteric-Transmitted Viral Hepatitis: The Unrecognized Threat” is the third session. The lesser publicized viruses hepatitis A and hepatitis E, transmitted through foodborn pathways, will be discussed. “Though these two viruses are not often emphasized,” Dr. Liang explains, “it is very important to identify important public health issues and preventive measures, both in the US and especially in developing countries.”

Session 4 “Hepatitis C Virus: The State of the Science” begins “the most anticipated part of the program.” Dr. Liang expands, “we will review the current state of basic science, epidemiology, and immunology.” The next session is “The State of the Therapy.” “Remaining challenges and unresolved issues will be highlighted,” Dr. Liang enthuses. “There will also be another case presentations/debate session on hepatitis C.”

Wrapping up the course will be Session 6 “Viral Hepatitis: The Difficult Issues and Current Challenges.” Many important topics will be addressed to provide an understanding of genomic medicine, biomarker development, liver transplantation, liver cancer, and more. “Special populations like institutionalized, renal failure, and HIV coinfected patients will be discussed in term of their management,” Dr. Liang educates. “Since the presence of viral hepatitis in these populations is quite high, the course will cover liver transplantation as a bridge to life in liver disease. Liver transplantation for end-stage viral hepatitis could be life-saving for some patients.” Dr. Liang adds: “the course will also discuss liver cancer, a very important consequence of end-stage liver disease.” “To give attendees a perspective of what we know now and what we hope to do in the future,” Dr. Liang reveals, “a special lecture by Dr. Maddrey will gaze into the crystal ball and predicts what the future beholds for the next decade or so.

To view the Postgraduate Course program including the schedule of speakers, click here (/lm/program/Pages/PostGraduateCourse.aspx) .