 (http://www.cyberlinkpro.com)  
 (index.html)  (order.html)  (howitworks.html)  (faq.html)  (support.html)  (contactus.html)



Make Christmas 2010 a season of higher rankings, traffic and more profits!

Watch Your Traffic & Earnings Increase Every Month!

Don't believe it works? We user our OWN system to boost our OWN business!

We are ranked in the top (5) for "One way text links" and "One way backlinks"

   View Current Google Rankings For One Way Text Links (http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&q=one+way+text+links&aq=f&aqi=&aql=&oq=&gs_rfai=)
  
View Current Google Rankings For One Way Backlinks (http://www.google.com/search?q=one+way+backlinks&start=0)

Click Here to Read TESTIMONIALS (testimonials.htm)

 

 
 
1,000 LINKS
 
Only $19.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://12.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
5,000 LINKS
 
Only $49.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://13.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
10,000 LINKS
 
Only $89.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://18.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
 
 
 
15,000 LINKS
 
Only $119.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://19.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
20,000 LINKS
 
Only $149.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://20.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
40,000 LINKS
 
Only $269.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://23.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 

 

For Larger Link packages up to 1 MILLION links Please Contact Us (contactus.html)

Bookmark & Share this page:

 


TESTIMONIAL

"Hello, my name is Rich Akerson and I am the owner of www.japaneseswords4samurai.com and www.swordsoftheeast.com. We started CyberLinkPro 6 months ago. We were ranked # 14 and # 17 at Google for the keyphrase "Samurai Swords for sale".

Incredibly after only 6 months my websites are NOW RANKED # 1 and # 3 for "Samurai Swords for sale". Our monthly sales are up $6-7,000 due to the rankings increase. CyberLinkPro is absolutely fantastic!"

Rich Akerson (email me anytime for a reference at help@swordsoftheeast.com)

  

View Current Google Rankings For Samurai Swords for sale (http://www.google.com/search?sourceid=navclient&ie=UTF-8&rlz=1T4GZHZ_enUS224US225&q=samurai+swords+for+sale)

 


One Way BacklinksOne Way Backlinks
img2img2
We offer a variety of text link services to help you obtain higher search engine rankings, link popularity and increase your Google PageRank. Our unique service allows you to instantly add your static text links to over one million content rich article web pages in over 60 different categories.

Inventory

Our text link inventory includes over 100,000 articles published on thousands of different websites. The article software is built to be search engine friendly to ensure all articles (and your text links) get crawled and indexed.

Additional benefits of getting our text links:

  • One way links are the best way to improve your search engine ranking.
  • Getting quality inbound links from CyberLinkPro is fast, simple and effective.
  • We offer text links on thousands of different web sites.
  • Build links and anchor text with keywords relevant to your business.
  • Ability to vary anchor text throughout the campaign.
  • Build Link ads to sub pages within your website (deep linking).
  • Complete real time control enables you to promote new product pages quickly and effectively.

img2

One Way BacklinksOne Way Backlinks
img2img2
Our unique software allows you to manage all of your text link purchases in real time and specify the the type of text link, the category and the even the actual page on which your text link will be displayed. You will have 3 incredible text link options to choose from!

One Way BacklinksOne Way BacklinksOne Way Backlinks
img2img2
Link popularity and link relevancy are the two primary factors in the way that most search engines determine rankings. Our service will help you by providing the opportunity to add text links across a wide variety of web pages as well as providing a way to designate the category of the web pages on which your text links will appear.

 

Read More TESTIMONIALS Here (testimonials.htm)

 

The Main Features of our oneway back links are:

Our Incredibly Simple and Easy to use Control Panel:
Even a complete computer novice will have their links in place in seconds. It's that easy!
Hand Pick Your Links From Thousands of Websites Relevant To Your Site:
Decide where to place your links using our simple and easy control panel.
Your New One Way Links Will Appear Instantly On The Websites You Choose:
Your Links are added instantly and you may view the sites having your links immediately.
Select links by category, articles or keywords:
Link to your website using category, articles or anchor keywords which Google Loves.
Unlimited URL, Affiliate Links:
Use any number of URL or Affiliate links until you use all of your link credits.
NO pop-ups, pop-unders, fake sites etc. Our websites are All Real and Live!:
Your One Way Back Links will be coming from REAL quality sites only.
All sites are high quality, pre-screened, and loaded with great content:
Sites in our network have diff ip address with tons of quality content.
Oneway back links only:
You are not required to link back. Get the FULL benefit of One Way linking at Google, Yahoo & MSN!
Use our Auto-setup feature!
Select our Auto-setup option and we'll place all the links for you. You do nothing at all but watch!


TESTIMONIAL

"I purchased 5,000 links from CyberLinkPro just 3 months ago and I have been amazed how quickly my rankings have gone up. We are up 24 spots at google and 18 places at Yahoo so far for my target phrases.

We are just thrilled with the results!"

Danielle C. Rothchild, Marketing Director, Creative Art Landscapes

(email anytime for a reference at dcfolkart@yahoo.com)

 

50% Discount today! Signup Now to LOCK IN these LOW monthly Rates.

 
 
1,000 LINKS
 
Only $19.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://12.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
5,000 LINKS
 
Only $49.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://13.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
10,000 LINKS
 
Only $89.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://18.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
 
 
 
15,000 LINKS
 
Only $119.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://19.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
20,000 LINKS
 
Only $149.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://20.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
40,000 LINKS
 
Only $269.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://23.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 

 

For Larger Link packages up to 1 MILLION links Contact Us (contactus.html)

 

Additional Information On How Our One Way Backlinks Will Help You!

Cyberlinkpro.com links is one of the most powerful ways to gain a top search engine ranking. This is a well guarded secret that only the top internet marketers used. If you take a keyword phrase "text link ads" and link that phrase to your site thru ads, article links etc. your site will move up in the pages of all major search engines.

FACT: Keyword Loaded Category Links Produce Top SE Rankings

The object is to have more inbound text links than your competitors without going overboard. In the old days this was done thru exchanging links with other sites. This process was very time consuming as you had to contact each webmaster and ask to trade links. Now days it takes a very powerful and complex automated linking system to beat the search engines at their own game as everything must remain hidden from the bots. Of course you could still get text links the old way by trading but your competition can a 1,000 links in 5 minutes as where trading would take months.

FACT: Keyword Phrase Links Produce Top SE Rankings

If you are after heavily sought after keyword phrases some of your competitors may be using hundreds of thousands of backlinks to gain front page search engine results. Have you ever seen a home page that has no wording, just a few images and a sign up button and it is #1. Have you ever wonder how the heck did they get the number 1 spot? Well now you know.

Search engines count your inbound links, they give weight to one way links over link exchanges... SEO experts say that a keyword phrase inside an article is the most powerful text link you can get which brings me to us...

FACT: Keyword Loaded Article Links Produce Top SE Rankings

You can manage all your links from one single panel which makes easy to create 1000's of backlink for your multiple sites.You can also just use your affiliate links if you do not have a site.

Click Here to see how it works (howitworks.html)

We do not allow: web sites containing pornography, racist information, warez downloads or illegal content. In addition, we do not allow "FFA" or "Link Farm" type sites which contain only keywords/search results for specific terms. We do allow the following categories.

Advertising
Affiliate Programs
Art and Hobbies
Auction Services
Auto Care and Services
Books and Publications
Business Products and Supplies
Business Services
Classifieds
Clothing and Accessories
Computer Hardware
Computer Services
E-Commerce
Education and Training
Electronics Employment
Entertainment
Financial Services
Foods and Culinary
Fun and Games
Gambling and Casinos
Gifts and Collectibles
Health and Fitness
Health Care and Medical
Home Products and Services
Home-Based Business
Industrial and Commercial
Information and Communication
Internet Marketing
Internet Resources
Internet Service Providers
Investment Opportunities
Jewelry and Watches
Legal Resources
Music and Audio
Online Dating
Online Shopping and Gifts
Outdoor Recreation
Pets and Animals
Photography
Prescription Drugs
Real Estate
Religion
Reunions and Genealogy
Safety and Security
Search Engine Optimization
Self Help Software
Sports and Athletics
Telecommunications
Tools and Machinery
Travel and Hotels
Web Design
Web Hosting
Web Marketing
Web Resources

50% Discount today!    Signup Now to LOCK IN these LOW monthly rates.

 
 
1,000 LINKS
 
Only $19.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://12.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
5,000 LINKS
 
Only $49.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://13.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
10,000 LINKS
 
Only $89.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://18.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
 
 
 
15,000 LINKS
 
Only $119.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://19.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
20,000 LINKS
 
Only $149.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://20.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
40,000 LINKS
 
Only $269.95 per month
 
web site search engine optimization, search engine optimization specialist, Florida search engine optimization, economical search engine optimization, search engine optimization seo, effective search engine optimization, ethical search engine optimization, Miami search engine optimization, search engine ranking optimization, search engine optimization software, guaranteed search engine optimization (http://23.spiderden.pay.clickbank.net/)
 
 

Your order will be processed securely via Clickbank.net our secure payment processor.

 
 
Home (http://www.cyberlinkpro.com) | Order (order.html) | How it works (howitworks.html) | Faq (faq.html) | Support (support.html) | Contact Us (contactus.html) | Affiliates (affiliates.html) | Privacy Policy (privacypolicy.html) | Terms of Use (termsofuse.html) | Articles (articles.php)

Copyright © 2010 CyberlinkPro.com. All Rights Reserved.







Additional information about your business and Search Engine Optimization (SEO)
Websites are quickly becoming one of the most popular ways of advertising. Whether it be a business, its product or service or something completely different, everyone of all ages is turning to the web as a method of getting their message out there. With the popularity of this marketing medium increasing and the number of websites always growing, it is obvious that everyone wants to appear at the top of Google's search engine rankings. Achieving such a task is not an easy feat, however with a bit of perseverance, one can definitely improve their chances of reaching that glorious first page result.

Given that there is a heap of websites out there who are on the first page, what is their secret? It is a little industry term called "SEO" and it stands for Search Engine Optimization. SEO basically consists of the customization of your website, its content and its internal and external links to assist in the overall indexing and ranking of your website in popular search engines. There are many contributing factors that are used in determining a website's ranking and every search engine is different. This makes trying to optimize your site for Google, Yahoo, Live and the many others quite a painstaking task.

As most of us are aware, Google is currently the most popular search engine for the majority of Internet users. As such, it is only normal that we'd want to focus our sights on achieving a higher ranking within Google first with the hope that the rest will follow. To do this, we must start a journey that could potentially take months before we start seeing any real change, however we have to start somewhere.

Our journey begins by defining some of the key contributing factors that Google uses to determine a website's and webpage's ranking within its results. These factors range from keyword use to manipulating internal and external links and the líst goes on. To get you started, we have listed the top twenty factors that you should focus on in order to help get your website that little bit closer to the top of the search engine results listings.

Keyword Use Factors

The following components relate to the use of search query terms in determining the rank of a particular page.

1. Keyword Use in Title Tag - Placing the targeted search term or phrase in the title tag of the web page's HTML header.

2. Keyword Use in Body Text - Using the targeted search term in the visible, HTML text of the page.

3. Relationship of Body Text Content to Keywords - Topical relevance of text on the page compared to targeted keywords.

4. Keyword Use in H1 Tag - Creating an H1 tag with the targeted search term/phrase.

5. Keyword Use in Domain Name & Page URL - Including the targeted term/phrase in the registered domain name, i.e. keyword.com plus target terms in the webpage URL, i.e. seomoz.org/keyword-phrase.

Page Attributes

The following elements comprise how Google interprets specific data about a webpage independent of keywords.

6. Link Popularity within the Site's Internal Link Structure - Refers to the number and importance of internal links pointing to the target page.

7. Quality/Relevance of Links to External Sites/Pages - Do links on the page point to high quality, topically-related pages?

8. Age of Document - Older pages may be perceived as more authoritative while newer pages may be more temporarily relevant.

9. Amount of Indexable Text Content - Refers to the literal quantity of visible HTML text on a page.

10. Quality of the Document Content (as measured algorithmically) - Assuming search engines can use text, visual or other analysis methods to determine the validity and value of content, this metric would provide some level of rating.

Site/Domain Attributes

The factors below contribute to Google's rankings based on the site/domain on which a page resides.

11. Global Link Popularity of Site - The overall link weight/authority as measured by links from any and all sites across the web (both link quality and quantity).

12. Age of Site - Not the date of original registration of the domain, but rather the launch of indexable content seen by the search engines (note that this can change if a domain switches ownership).

13. Topical Relevance of Inbound Links to Site - The subject-specific relationship between the sites/pages linking to the target page and the target keyword.

14. Link Popularity of Site in Topical Community - The link weight/authority of the target website amongst its topical peers in the online world.

15. Rate of New Inbound Links to Site - The frequency and timing of external sites linking in to the given domain.

Inbound Link Attribute

These pieces affect Google's weighting of links from external websites pointing to a page and ultimately will assist in the ranking of that page.

16. Anchor Text of Inbound Link.

17. Global Link Popularity of Linking Site.

18. Topical Relationship of Linking Page.

19. Link Popularity of Site in Topical Community - The link weight/authority of the target website amongst its topical peers in the online world.

20. Age of Link.

Negative Crawling/Ranking Attributes

There are also some points we should make before you start getting your hands dirty. With any type of SEO marketing, there are some things that can actually have a negative impact on your ranking. These following components may negatively affect a spider's ability to crawl a page or its rankings at Google.

Server is Often Inaccessible to Bots.

Content Very Similar or Duplicate of Existing Content in the Index.

External Links to Low Quality/Spam Sites.

Duplicate Title/Meta Tags on Many Pages.

Overuse of Targeted Keywords (Stuffing/Spamming).
It's now time to get busy! Start prioritizing your tasks, modifying your content and building your internal and external links to meet some of the above guidelines. Keep in mind that improving indexing is mostly a technical task and improving ranking is mostly a business/marketing strategy. What might work now may not work in the future and finally, it takes time. Loads of time. Still, with a bit of trial and error and a good dose of persistence, you can achieve the search engine ranking you're after.

 

 

 

It's always a good idea to stick to the basics. When businesses stray too far from the fundamentals, problems arise, but sticking to the basics doesn't mean boring people into a state of unconsciousness. If Web-visitors' eyes glaze-over upon entering your site, you've lost them before you've begun.

Web success is based on creative implementation of the basics, and that's where your Web-marketing presentation should begin.

1. Web-Audience Response Demands Communication

The Web has a lot in common with television but there are fundamental differences; it is important for Web-entrepreneurs to understand these differences and similarities, and learn from them.

Television and the Web are both communication environments, but television, like magazines and newspapers, are primarily advertising platforms. Of course there are plenty of websites around that follow the advertising financial model, but for the average business website, depending on third party advertising not only dilutes their marketing message and brand, but it also makes for a confusing and cluttered visual presentation.

Just because your website presents information, doesn't mean it's communicating it to your intended audience in any meaningful way. The manner in which you communicate your message is as important as the message itself. The medium is increasingly becoming the message, and even in situations where it isn't, it definitely shapes the message.

2. Web-Audience Response Demands Content

You have repeatedly heard the comment, 'content is king,' but we think, 'communication is king' because without communication your content is meaningless. But here's the dilemma, your information is basically advertising, after all you're in business, and business is about selling something - a product, a service, an idea, or your know-how. So the real underlying purpose of your website is to make that advertising message worth listening to, and to do that, you need to turn it into content.

To turn advertising into content you have to accept that sales take time. You have to be patient. You can't hurry a sale, you first have to build confidence; stop rushing the close and start thinking of selling as a courtship. You would never ask someone to get married on a first date, so why would you expect to get an order from a potential Web-client on their first visit.

3. Web-Audience Response Demands Courtship

No one is going to make a substantial financial commitment without reaching some level of comfort with who you are and what you do, and that requires some repeated contact: a courtship, or negotiation if you prefer.

Therein lies the similarity and difference between websites and television: the success of a television program is based on habituation. If you get people to tune-in every week on the same night, at the same time to see their favorite program, you will be able to keep delivering your marketing message through the commercials that pay for the content. In the same regard, if you can make your website interesting enough through the compelling presentation of content, you will get visitors to return again and again, each time gaining confidence and respect for what you do and what you sell.

The difference is people accept television commercials as the price they pay for free TV programming, but the same cannot be said for the Web. People want free information on the Web without the irritation and bother of ads; so the challenge for website owners is to turn their marketing message into compelling programming that creates habituation which is just another form of negotiation, or courtship of potential clients.

4. Web-Audience Response Demands Consistency

You hear the word strategy bandied about with little relevance to its precise meaning. In marketing terms, strategy is a big idea, a sustainable concept that you can build a business around.

Successful companies rarely change their strategies, a concept that should not be confused with tactics, which are the various methods used to implement strategy in order to secure the ultimate objectives.

Business has to be resilient and open-minded enough to adapt to an ever-changing business environment by constantly updating tactics, but strategy needs to be a constant, a touchstone or benchmark for implementing action. Staying on course requires confidence in the strategy with a vigilant eye on the big picture.

Websites that are nothing more than brochures or catalogs of product that anyone can purchase at the local mall or box store is a tactic that delivers little relevance to today's Web-savvy consumer. And the same can be said for the blatantly obvious direct marketíng sites based on old magazine subscription techniques. The new multimedia communication-based Web requires new presentation tactics in order to successfully implement marketing strategy.

5. Web-Audience Response Demands Expectation

Successful marketing is not just about persuading people that what you have is what they need, it's about creating a series of deliverable expectations.

If you expect a product to be easy to use because that's what the marketing communication states, then that product better be easy to use. Effective marketing presentations not only prompt action but just as importantly they create a set of realistic, deliverable expectations.

Ask yourself, why do people mistrust politicians, car salesmen, and telemarketers? We all know the answer: many will say, and promise, just about anything to get your vote or order, and the result is a disgruntled, cynical voter or customer. Read my lips, no false expectations!

6. Web-Audience Response Demands Trust

When customers' expectations are met, you begin to create trust, and trust is one of the hardest things to achieve on a website that lacks any kind of human connection to the audience.

I can't tell you how many websites I've visited that make no effort to humanize their presentations, and consequently their businesses. When you go to a contact page and all that's there is a form to fill-in, with no contact name or phone number, it says to people, 'I really can't be bothered talking to you.' Hiding behind email tells people not to trust you, and if they don't trust you, they are not going to do business with you.

Business is about connecting to people, whether they are consumers, purchasing agents, or suppliers. If your website doesn't have some kind of human element like a video Web-host, audio message, or even a contact name and phone number, how can you expect to connect and build confidence, and trust in your intent to satisfy their needs?

7. Web-Audience Response Demands Personality

By building trust with your Web-audience you are also building your brand and defining your corporate personality. Here again we have a bit of a dichotomy since personality is a human-based characteristic, so how then can we create a personality and instill human characteristics into an inanimate entity like a business?

Corporate personality does not derive from a logo, packaging, or your website's aesthetic qualities. Corporate personality is the sum total of the collective experiences your audience has with your company. In the brick and mortar world, corporate personality is a result of dealing with people, sales people, receptionists, and telemarketers; in short personality is derived from interaction with real human beings.

Clever, well written website copy can help create personality as long as it is written in a distinctive human voice, but we know that 70% of all website text is never read; people skip to bulleted points and captions. But the same material delivered by a real person either through Web-audio or video, not only delivers the marketing message in the most memorable and compelling fashion, but it also defines the business personality and humanizes the website.

Two caveats: avatars are not people, and unless you can afford to hire the creators of the Simpsons to develop your animation, you best forget it; as well, using yourself or a non-professional as a spokesperson or Web-host is a dangerous practice, and speaks more to ego than it does to effective business development.

8. Web-Audience Response Demands Motivation

Lastly your website must communicate content that excites and motivates people to do business with you. The ability to motivate people isn't about what you're selling; it's about how you present it.

Motivational speakers, whether in the business, entertainment, personal coaching, or sports arenas, all deliver a similar message; but the ones that truly stimulate people to act, are the ones that know how to present their ideas in the most exciting and compelling manner. If you want to motivate your Web-audience to respond, your presentation has to be delivered by a real human being: a professional with charm, charisma, and a distinctive character.

Building backlinks is an essential, yet tedious job for most webmasters. Here are a few tools and tips to make that job just a little bit easier...

Most of the forums have to do with online marketing and site promotion. Recently, I came across a post on Ken Evoy's SBI forum that truly caught my attention.

It basically described how to use Google Alerts to build your backlinks. Now for those not familiar with Google Alerts a little explanation is probably needed.

Google Alerts

Google Alerts is a free program run by Google that allows you to keep track of any topic on the web. You select your "keywords" or "urls" and Google will alert you via email whenever links/ content containing your selected topics appear anywhere on the web.

It is an excellent way to keep informed about your domain or name. It is also perfect for keeping up-to-date on the latest information in your market niche or niches. It's also a great way to find out what other people are saying about you or your site.

For example: if you have a site on "antique cars" then you would create a Google Alert for those keywords. Google will alert you by email whenever a new link/content related to those keywords appears on the web.

This is a great way to stay informed in your niche, but it is also a valuable source of potential linking partners. Many of those links are blogs that will allow comments with a link back to your site.

Google Alerts will probably send you 10-20 links each day, depending on the popularity of your chosen keywords. Just go to these blogs/links and see if you can leave a comment with some valuable additional information on what's been discussed.

Don't Spam

Please Note: Don't spam; there are intelligent people behind most of these blogs, and they will recognize keyword spam when they see it. Your main goal should be getting targeted traffíc back to your site and any link PR should be secondary. Always put the reader or viewer first, especially if it's on someone else's site. Don't talk about your site or your marketing - just join the conversation and add your comments/opinions/suggestions...

Enhance their site and they will reward you with traffic and a link. But you still have to keep your interests in the equation! You have to make sure you get your targeted keywords in the anchor text.

Keyword Market

First, if you've done your homework, your main keywords should already be in your domain name or url. Another way is to add your "keywords" + "guide" to your sig or signature. Such as: Name, Your Antique Cars Guide. If you're an expert in your particular niche, many webmasters will kindly welcome your comments and links.

Since your main goal is the traffic, many webmasters don't worry if there is a "no follow" attribute attached to the link. But if you are concerned about this - one way is to look at the source code to see if it has the "no follow" tag. I usually copy the whole source code of the page to my text editor and then do a simple "no follow" search.

No Follow

There is also a great little free comment tool called "Comment Kahuna" co-created by Jason Potash which will search blogs and tell you if they have the "no-follow" attribute or not, it will also give you the PageRank of each blog post. If you're going to use blogs as a source of your backlinks, I suggest you try Comment Kahuna - it will make the task much easier and it's free.

Actually, while the "no-follow" issue may be a concern for some webmasters, the savvy ones will realize these are links/sites Google is actively indexing and spidering, otherwise you wouldn't get the alert in the first place. You must get your links into this whole mix of related, relevant sites to help raise your rankings. Also remember the other search engines may not even consider the "no-follow" tag.

Trackbacks

Likewise, creating trackbacks are another way of linking relevant content. Keep in mind, a trackback is simply an acknowledgement via a ping signal that is sent from Site A (originator) to Site B (receptor). Then the receptor often places a link back to Site A showing its worthiness.

Again, I am mainly concerned with the quality of the blog or link, rather than the linking structure. I want the targeted traffíc, and it doesn't really matter whether the link has "no follow" because interested visitors only see a link they can click for other helpful information.

Other Linking Options

Since we are on the topic of link building, another useful way to build backlinks is to use Google Search or Google Blog search. Now if you're looking for niche-related blogs just type in:

"(Keywords)" "powered by (blog scripts)"

For example, if you're looking for some "antique cars" related links on WordPress blogs, you would search for:

"antique cars" "powered by wordpress"

And Google would give you a whole líst of sites on antique cars.

Now if you want to find the links that will allow comments, just repeat the Google search with:

"antique cars" "powered by wordpress" "leave a comment" -"no comments"

Remember the "-" means posts that have no comments will not be displayed.

If you're concerned with PageRank, Number of Backlinks, Alexa Ranking... of particular posts you can download and install the SEOQuake plugin. This handy SEO plugin can be attached to your browser and will give you helpful SEO information on the link or links you're viewing.

Used in conjunction with Google, it can sort thru all these blog posts and give you the ones with the highest PR? Highest traffic? Highest number of backlinks? The more knowledge you have, the easier and more effective your link building will become.

Just remember, finding quality backlinks is probably the most tedious job for most webmasters. It takes time and it takes patience. By using Google Alerts you can have relevant keyword related links emailed to you each day. Use this information to help build your backlinks in relevant related niches. Do this consistently over a period of time and your site will get noticed and ranked higher.

There have always been do-it-yourselfers succeeding at web promotíon and search engine optimization. In fact, many of the established businesses offering web services today came from humble beginnings, perhaps nothing more than a college student with a laptop, an internet connection, and too much free time. The Web evolves as the result of the innovation and experimentation of individuals. The sharing of knowledge. The do-it-yourself attitude.

As text link brokers and mass link networking decrease in value and use of social media increases, it becomes more important for companies to have an internal approach and awareness of search engine marketing. Don't get me wrong; outsourcing to SEO firms is still a smart option. That said, making the most out of Web 2.0 usually requires some level of cooperation between SEO firm and site owner. You don't need to be an expert to know the basics of good SEO practices, and that added knowledge will be agreat advantage whether you're working along side an SEO team, or promoting your site in your spare time.

So if you're on a "need to know" basis with SEO, the following points should illustrate what an overall plan should include:

1. Create Search Engine-Friendly Content

Unique web content is your most valuable asset, and ensuring search engines can read it is crucial. Text embedded in images or Flash cannot be read, so make sure you use important keywords, headings, and hyperlinks in plain text form. Instead of using images as navigation links, CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) makes it easy to format those links to look more like 'buttons', thus creating powerful anchor text as well as making it visually appealing. Use heading tags properly and don't try to hide keywords or text by making it the same color as the page background or shrinking it so it can't be seen. Make sure the keywords you wish to rank high for are used frequently in the page copy but within reason.

Now that you've created good content, is it actually being crawled? Copy and paste a page's URL into a search engine to see if it has been indexed. If you've just created the page, it may take a few days to show up. Aside from age, many factors can lead to web pages not being indexed by search engines, such as duplicate content (ie. a printer-friendly version of a page might be indexed and the normal version not, or vice versa); links generated by JavaScript instead of HTML; poor site architecture (ie. using too many sub-directories); lengthy, dynamically generated URLs using special characters; and orphaned pages.

2. Choose Your Keywords Wisely

One of the first steps of SEO, this one needs to be done properly the first time or all your future efforts and promotion could end up being wasted. Start by writing down general terms that describe your products, services or web content. Use keyword research services to investigate word and phrase variations. Wordtracker, KeywordDiscovery, and the Google AdWords suggestion tool are good starting points. The goal is to find those niche phrases that your target market uses to find sites just like yours and optimize your site for them. If the phrases do not get enough use by searchers, your profíts from ranking for them will be low. At the same time, stay away from general terms that are tougher to rank for (ie. like "art", "computers", "business", etc.) as a great portion of the traffic will be irrelevant and you'll break the bank attaining such competitive phrases.

3. Get Others to Link to Your Site

In theory there are countless ways, some traditional and some quite innovative, to get other web sites to link to yours. In practice, it can be easier said than done. Google defines a link as it pertains to rankings and SEO as a "vote" from one site to another. The more quality votes your site receives, the greater chance you have of ranking well. If a well established site links to yours, that link carries more weight than one would from a mom & pop shop or less reputable page.

If your site has useful content and is doing something unique, you're already ahead of much of the competition. People need a reason to link to your site, as very few will do it out of the goodness of their heart. Trading links can work, but link exchange networks have decreased in value and won't be of much use in competitive fields. ing links, if you haven't heard, is a big Google no-no. While entire articles could be written on this topic, here are a few popular methods of acquiring incoming links:

issuing company press releases with a link back to your site


submittíng to reputable business directories such as Yahoo! and Business.com


be active on related blogs by commenting and exchanging ideas


if you have clients with web sites, ask if they would mind adding your link in a "partners" section


participate in relevant forums and discussion boards with a link in your signature


write and submit original articles to web publications in your field with a link in your bio
get involved in social media and bookmarking
4. Join the Social Media Revolution

The collaboration between Internet users and the development of online communities is at an all-time high. Social bookmarking sites such as Del.icio.us, StumbleUpon, Furl, Reddit, and Technorati provide users a way to store their favorite pages and media online, and share it with others. These services also provide a way to promote your content or create a buzz over a product or service. Creating a Myspace page or Squidoo "lens" is also a way to network and share information.

However, if your goal is to generate sales, then you must provide something without the promotional hype. The reality of social media is that popularity is based almost entirely on public interest. If your information or media isn't unique or of interest to anyone, you cannot force success using social media communities.

The key to using social media and bookmarking sites to your advantage is to not be shy. Getting your entries and content to the popular pages on these sites requires some hard work. Network with other users, bookmark and share useful content, create eye-catching titles for your entries, and tell your friends and co-workers about the content you have on these sites. However, don't force your employees to vote your entries up - this is social media fraud. If you have great content and simply share it with as many people as you can, it will see success naturally.

These four points are a general guideline to follow for SEO. Search engine optimization experts and firms are a good outsourcing option in competitive markets, while the DIY attitude can yield great results for web site owners with smaller marketing budgets. If you're in the latter group, hopefully this helps get you started.

The Internet is such an unknown commodity anything is possible. One of the most intriguing questions concerns the idea of a perpetual traffic machine. Create a website and design a system of automatic programs (both interior and exterior) that delivers content and backlinks to a site that updates itself automatically and keeps growing without any help from the creator. In the process you build a flow of traffic that doesn't stop, even if the site is abandoned or not touched for a couple of years or never again.

Is such a perpetual traffic system really possible?

Before you conjure up pictures of HAL and creepy talking computers in distant space... realize that question may carry more weight than it would seem at first glance. But is it like its predecessor, the perpetual motion machine - just more an illusion than actual fact?

For curiosity's sake if for nothing else, the idea of a perpetual traffic machine does require further investigation. Such a system would have special interest for millions of webmasters whose main task is acquiring traffic for their sites, not to mention the potential for monetary gain a PTM (rhymes with ATM) would produce. Some credence was given to the idea recently when Tinu Abayomi-Paul, a well-known online free traffic expert, produced with the help of Marlon Sanders an info-product entitled "The Evergreen Traffic Machine."

Tinu's story is very interesting. Tinu had built up a whole array of sites and optimized them successfully for countless keywords in all the major search engines. She had built up a steady flow of traffic, resulting in thousands of visitors "a day" to her sites. This in itself is not that extraordinary, but that's not the full story.

Because of a personal illness she abandoned or left alone most of her sites for over a year or more - only to discover the traffic systems she had put into place didn't just dry up, they still kept producing tons of traffic even though the sites weren't being updated.

The traffic was still coming. The traffic was still fresh.

Tinu basically built her perpetual traffic system around three major areas: High Profile Article Marketing, Exact Keyword Focus and Blogging/RSS Feeds. Tinu's system proves you can create a traffic system for a year or two, but the real question is will it still produce traffic five years from now? Fifty years from now? How about a hundred years?

The real question: how long will such a system work without fresh input of unique content like the viral articles and blog posts now feeding it? This question is even more tantalizing when you consider it is now possible to create fresh content on your sites with RSS feeds, blog comments and user contributed content.

What's more intriguing is the fact that all aspects of a website can be automated, including payment for all renewals: domain, hosting, autoresponders... as well as the collection of revenues such as affiliate commissions and advertising fees.

Are we at the stage where the Internet will be filled with these automated human-less web sites drawing traffic/visitors and slowly building and expanding on their own for eternity? Many cynics would argue this is already the case with the majority of sites on the web.

In case you like that idea and want to fully embrace this brave new automated perpetual Internet, here are a few tips to create your eternal traffic machine:

1. Build lists and pre-load your AR system with follow-up messages to keep visitors coming back to your site. You can rotate these messages and ask your subscribers to opt-ín to different lists on related subject areas. Always ask your readers to recommend your content to others.

2. Use social bookmark software or links so that your visitors can easily bookmark your content which brings in both new links and new traffic. Simple programs like the one offered by Addthis.com will get your visitors building your backlinks for you, bringing in fresh visitors who in turn will also bookmark your content.

3. Write viral articles, reports and ebooks that have your backlinks in the resource boxes. Likewise, viral software programs can help bring a constant flow of traffic to your site. If your content is of a high quality and your themes universal... new sites will pick up your content and build your backlinks, creating fresh traffic. The search engines will also index these new links and your rankings will rise, bringing in more traffíc.

4. Use blogging and RSS feeds to get your content out there. You can also use these RSS feeds to bring in new fresh content to your site. Creating new content will be your main obstacle to creating perpetual traffic... you can get new content from feeds but will it be unique? Comments in your blogs could bring in unique content but if you're not monitoring them, you must have solid software in place to fight against spam.

5. Have "Tell a Friend" forms on all your content. This will bring new traffic to your site, which can be self-refreshing as new people discover your content.

6. Encourage user generated content such as articles, comments, posts... you can even have a community monitoring system where your site's members monitor this new content.

7. Form JV alliances with webmasters in your related field. Do co-registration so that you help build each other's lists and traffic.

8. Likewise, if you have products to sell, create an affiliate program to get your affiliates to build your traffic for you. Affiliates are an excellent source of permanent traffic.

9. Automate all aspects of the running and managing of your website. Set up automatic payments for your AR system, hosting, domain renewal, PPC payments... thru PayPal or credít card. Likewise, receive affiliate commissions thru PayPal or direct deposit. Many advertising programs like Google Adsense provide direct deposit.

10. PPC Traffic - While we have mainly looked at free traffic systems, don't forget creating a PTM is relatively easy with Pay Per Click advertising if you know what you're doing. Target less competitive keywords to keep your costs down, tie this traffic into a good squeeze page for feeding your AR system with leads and have a good landing page that converts. You can create a system that delivers perpetual traffic and pays for itself from your affiliate commissions and advertising fees.

In summary, the argument for the existence of the PTM mainly relies upon the quality of your content or site. Is it unique enough to draw in new visitors? Does your topic have universal appeal that people don't tire of? Does it solve or provide advice on a common human problem? Will or does it have a viral "word of mouth" element to it?

As we move to a more and more automated world, all the automated programs and hardware are in place for the creation of such perpetual traffic machines.

Computers, autoresponders, content management software, RSS feeds, viral marketing, direct deposit, automatic payments... and the líst goes on. If we haven't already created the perpetual traffic machine - we are getting tangibly close to doing just that.

What's the big deal about search engine optimization? Isn't it enough that you've put up a website, purchased some Google AdWords, and sent out an email to everyone you know announcing your site? In short, no. There is an art and science to search engine optimization (SEO), and it is critical for web-based businesses to know, understand and utilize if they want to drive quality traffic to their website via the Internet.

Where do you begin, though? How can you possibly know whom to trust or what to do first with so much information out there on SEO? Do you links or not? Pay per clíck or go organic? And what about those SEO companies who are aggressively promising Number 1 rankings? When it comes to search engine ranking, there are a lot of rumors and myths about what will improve your rankings and what won't.

Debunking Some Popular Search Engine Ranking Myths

- Pay per clíck (PPC) ads will either help or hurt organic rankings. (Organic simply means the process by which web users find websites having unpaid search engine listings.)

Debunked: PPC is categorized differently than organic listings. There is no effect, one way or the other, on ranking.

- Websites are banned if they ignore Google guidelines.

Debunked: While it's a good idea to read Google Webmaster Guidelines or Google 101: How Google Crawls, Indexes and Serves the Web, you are not banned if you ignore their guidelines.

- Websites are banned if they buy links.

Debunked: Sites are not banned. The links just aren't counted.

- Copy must be a certain number of words, use a specific keyword density, and contain bold or italicized keywords.

Debunked: It used to be thought that there was a magic number of words used or certain times a keyword or keyword phrase should be repeated. Not so. Same with bolding and italicizing. They don't do anything for ranking.

- Duplicate content will get your website penalized.

Debunked: It will just get filtered out and not counted.

- Reciprocal links won't count.

Debunked: Every link counts, to a certain extent.

- SEO companies can improve your rankings without doing any on-page work.

Debunked: Run if an SEO company tells you this.

According to SEO expert Jill Whalen, SEO isn't magic and isn't a crap-shoot. "SEO is about making your website the best it can be for your site visitors and the search engines." Want to help the right kind of people find your website? Then you need to design your site so search engines can find, crawl and index your pages.

Seven Ways to Get Your Website Crawled

It's better to have one main website with numerous domains pointing to the main domain, than to have mini-sites or multiple sites with similar content. Mini-sites and multiple sites with similar content do not increase search engine listings and are frequently viewed by search engines as SPAM.

If you do have several stand-alone websites, make sure each serves a different target audience and has unique content with different domain or sub-domain URLs.

Search engines need to be able to follow internal links. To make that happen, use tags, text links, image links, and CSS menus. Spiders have difficulty with JavaScript menus, pop-up windows, drop-down menus, and flash navigation.

Choose keyword phrases that are most relevant and specific to what your web page is about. Think from the perspective of someone searching for what you are offering on your site. Ask, as if you were they: What would I search for if I am looking for something on your page?

Validate your keyword phrases through either paid or free services, such as Keyword Discovery, Wordtracker, or Google AdWords.

Check for keyword competitiveness. Take into consideration the size of your business. In this case, size does matter. If you are a major player with a major brand, you can play in a larger competitive pond than a smaller company just starting out. Know what size pond is right for you, and check for competitiveness by putting: allintitle: "keyword phrase" in your browser and check the number count.

Once you have your keyword phrases validated and checked for competitiveness, use them in anchor texts, clickable image alt tags, headlines, body text copy, title tags, and meta descriptions. Meta tags aren't all that important for crawling.
SEO can be both intimidating and exhilarating. Intimidating because it seems as if just about everyone has an opinion on what it takes to get a high ranking in Google, so it's hard to know what to believe. Exhilarating because, once you understand the method behind the madness of SEO, you see the art and science of it. Then it becomes fun and easy to come up with a strategic plan about where to place keyword phrases, how to write copy, and what size pond is best for your company to compete in. Optimize your website, and they will come.

Online marketers frequently struggle with the question of how to compete when Google fails to look positively upon a particular website. In this article, I will focus on how to build rankings and drive traffic to your website, using Google and the other search engines.

What Motivates Google's Algorithm

Over the years, many have tried to claim, even in court, that Google was unfairly keeping their website out of the top of Google's search results. But, the truth is that Google is not beholden to the needs and desires of the webmasters who want to be on page one of Google's natural search results.

Instead, Google is beholden to its stockholders and its need to earn profíts. Google has determined that the best way to keep profíts high is to keep Internet users flocking to its websites. Google accomplishes that by giving its users the kind of information they are looking to find, and Google weights its search algorithm towards what Google believes its search audience wants to see in the SERPs (Search Engine Results Pages).

It is important for online marketers to understand that it is not always in Google's best interest for our websites to rank well in Google.

How Important Is Google In Search?

Worldwide, Google is currently providing 78% of all searches.

But in 2007, Google only provided 52% of my website's total search traffic. Yahoo, Windows Live, Ask, and MSN provided the next 42%. The remaining 6% of my website's search traffic came from another 55 smaller search engines.

On my website, only 48.8% of my 2007 traffic actually came from search engines. The remaining 51.2% of my website's quarter million visitors came directly from article placements on other websites, recommendations from other people, forum posts, and from people who have bookmarks for my website. The key is I needed ONE WAY BACKLINKS to improve my rankings.

Tips For Ranking Well For Specific Keywords

It has been my experience that it is easier to rank in 1) MSN / Windows Live, 2) Yahoo, and then 3) Google, in that order. Quite frankly, I have always ignored the role of Ask in the search market. While MSN is the easiest search engine to rank in, it only delivered 4.6% of my total search traffic in 2007.

I read a question in a forum, where the poster was asking how he could get his website to rank well in Google for the search term, "software".

The truth is that it is nearly impossible in nearly every search engine to rank well in the natural results for such a singular keyword as "software". In a nutshell, if you want to rank well in Google, you need to build inbound links (IBLs) to your website with your targeted keywords in the links.

But, you don't want to put all of your links together with one keyword phrase. One of Google's red flags is when they notice a link to a particular website appearing more than 60% of the time with one specific keyword phrase.

Utilizing a variety of long-tail keywords will actually serve you better in the search-engine ranking puzzle, in more ways than one. After all, when I do a search for software, I don't type in the search word, "software". I type in search phrases like: "accounting software", "small business accounting software", "windows software accounting small business", "windows image editing software", "windows software image editor", "windows xp photo album manager", etc.

People searching the keyword "software" have yet to figure out that they are looking for specific kinds of software. Once they do an initial search, they are going to type in more specific search terms to find what they actually want. So, once you start targeting a variety of long-tail keyword phrases, then you will start seeing more success in your search marketing efforts.

How To Start Your Search Engine Optimization Journey

If you are wanting to get into the natural search results of Google and the other search engines, you must know before you dive into the project that getting good rankings in the search engines for your chosen keywords can take a really long time, before you begin seeing results.

While inbound links to your website, targeted to your chosen keywords, will help your website climb in the search results of your favorite search engines, it may be a frustrating journey.

Your competitors want to rank well for the same search terms you do. And since only ten of you can be on page one of the search results, you may have to work really hard to topple those guys already on page one of the results, and you will have to fight to keep your ranking once you get it.

There are some keyword phrases that are nearly impossible to rank for, even if you have really deep pockets. For example, most every keyword phrase for the financial industry will be extremely difficult to rank for in Google. Competition in this industry is fierce, so achieving top search rankings will be tough to say the least.

This is the reason why so many SEO experts encourage marketers to target "low-hanging fruit". It may be fairly easy to rank well for a four- or five-word search phrase, and extremely expensive to target a two- or three-word search phrase.

My personal approach has always been to rotate through a líst of more than 100 target keyword phrases, over a longer period of time. In doing so, I capture a lot of low-hanging fruit quickly, and at the end of the loop, I am a bit closer to snagging the fruit in the upper branches of the tree. At the end of my líst, I analyze my keywords again to see where I am strong and to see where I am still weak, and then I begin the process again. (According to SEOdigger.com, I have better than 950 keyword phrases in the top twenty results of Google.)

How To Get Links

The challenge most people face when they begin building links to a website is where to get those essential links.

Article marketing is my chosen method for getting inbound links.

Because of Google's news feed strategy, the initial placement of your article might appear immediately in the SERPs, but then it will disappear. During the news cycle phase of the Google algorithm, new materials are given an added boost in ranking. Once the news cycle is done, any new pages will sink back down to where they would be based on the general Google algorithm.

If you are honest with yourself, you know that every page on the Internet started life with a PageRank Zero, but given enough time, many pages will gain in PageRank, as they begin to be linked. For a more detailed look at the process of how reprint articles gain value for a website in Google's search index, see my article about "Fishing for Links in Google".

Utilizing article marketing as a link building method, I have put one website on the map in as little as eight weeks, with only three articles. This website has one #1, one #2, eight results on page one, and twelve results in the top twenty listings of Google. Most of those keywords also rank well in Yahoo and MSN.

On the other hand, on my main website, I started looking at the keyword phrase "article marketing" just eighteen months ago, when my website sat at #79. Today, my website sits at #12 in Google for that keyword phrase.

I believe that given enough time, investment and commitment, I can use article marketing to elevate any web page on the Internet to multiple page-one listings in Google. But, not everyone is willing to make the kind of investment and commitment one needs to get to the top of Google's search results...

What To Do When You Need Results Now

Try our program to build quality links to your website. Order links now from CyberLinkPro !

Matt Cutts posted a note about Google being in position to handle
paid link report submissions from the Internet community; Michael
Gray complained about the fairness of the request.

A long time part of the ranking of sites for given keywords in
search results includes inbound links. The more links connecting
anchor text to a site, the more that site is seen as authoritative
in the search rankings.

Move up the rankings to the first page of search results at
Google, especially in the top five for a given query, and the
relative traffic for the query should easily outdistance that
from lower ranked search results.

To get that bonus placement, many webmasters over the years
purchased links from other sites in order to gain an advantage.
As the practice grew, even though links are not the sole arbiter
of where a site ranks, Google began looking for ways to weed out
these paid placements.

So when Matt Cutts followed up his chat with Eric Enge by
advising people it would be a good time to drop new paid link
reports on Google, Michael Gray responded with a lengthy complaint
about Google's chasing of paid links.

"Your rules are selectively enforced and you take an aggressive
hard line stance against Internet marketers, while little Mary
A-List gets off scot-free," Gray said of Google and its treatment
of high-profile bloggers who receive valuable offline
considerations in exchange for their coverage of companies.

Gray wants to see Google pursue the so-called A-List of bloggers,
determine whether or not they picked up some kind of benefit in
exchange for favorable blogging, and penalize them the same way
Google penalizes link sellers.

"Why does Google aggressively go after the SEOs and ignore the
PR people? Why do people continue to tolerate Google's double
standards and two-tiered justice?" Gray asked.

One might argue that quality comes into the equation. A link from
a high-profile blogger to someplace of relevance and value means
more to the person who discovers it than a link to a site that
does not provide anything approaching an equally quality
experience.

In either example Gray gave, PR-purchased blog coverage versus a
webmaster to webmaster paid link opportunity, a benefit goes from
one party to the other. The difference is no blogger worth his or
her keyboard would ever admit to being influenced by the largess
given out as part of a PR campaign.

Tough economic times call for small businesses to get creative and
acquiring a domain name is an important first step in building a
successful online business.
A little equal treatment may be helpful. But Google will need an
army of investigators to dig into even a small selection of high-
profile blogs, in order to figure out if a relationship between a
blogger and a linked site merits action.

We don't see that happening for a reason beyond the obvious. Google
wants to drive out the influence of paid links, but they don't want
to push the A-list of bloggers into simply using other means of
getting the word out about their posts.

Imagine if the best way to figure out what a Gray or a Cutts had
to say was by tracking the topics they cover without using Google
search. Online forums abound when it comes to webmaster topics, of
course. Social media and shared bookmarking sites each offer people
the chance to be a network of like-minded interests.
Drop in participation on a messaging service like Twitter or
FriendFeed, and there's little reason to proactively search when
relevance from either person arrives unbidden. Imagine that
scenario, where for a particular interest, Google just isn't as
important.

Not every niche would draw similar interest; don't look for Google
to fold or for its founders and CEOs to give away their billions
to live as fudge-cooking Trappist monks as search traffic falls
to zero. The seeds to do more without Google exist. It's up to
people who hold views like Gray's to plant and water them.

Get Ready to Rumble...

We're all human. Competition runs in our blood. Everyone wants to be first or "the best"... carry this attitude over to your website and you are sure to beat out your competition! Your website is your virtual store, and if you don't possess this thinking already, you need to. Invest in your website, as its seen 24 hours a day, seven days a week by potential clients all over the world. Be prepared and get educated, as a website is a terrible thing to waste. The good old days of tweaking things here and there and wham! ...top ten placements, is over. Invest your time and hire a good SEO firm to help you market your business the right way.

Find out who's the hottest in your industry and make it a goal to beat them. With over 180 million searches on the web today, it is imperative to research keyword phrases that your competition is going after. What are their marketing tactics and are they working? Do they have an email campaign located on-site? What are their credentials? Does the website provide coupons, discounts or hot deals? It's the internet my fríend, the competition is steep and all bets are off. So, roll up your sleeves, put on your gloves, and get ready to rumble! Or, research an internet marketing firm that specializes in both search engine optimization and website design that can fight the battle for you.

Simple Simon Wins

Being a "Simpleton" ain't all that bad these days. Just because the world turns at record breaking speeds doesn't mean your website has to. Too much going on, whether there are words upon words, or graphics up the wazoo, can do more harm than good. Be cautious before slapping up just any old image or using too much text to get your point across. We all know that "Content is King!", but Optimized Content reigns supreme. By strategically placing the right keywords in your Title Tags, Meta Data Tags and throughout the body of your website, your business will benefit. Clean design, concise code, and fresh marketing ideas that are clear to the end user will help you get the leads and generate the desired sales you are looking for.

Optimize, Optimize, Optimize!

Search engine optimization... what's all the hype about!? Internet competition is booming - open your eyes and smell the code! If you have a beautiful website, but it's not converting...you've wasted your time and money. A well built website with search engine optimization in mind is a goldmine at your finger tips. What's the first step in optimization? Researching and determining a líst of keywords that will drive traffic to the site and convert into sales. Test out various keywords, find out what your competition is and let it ride. For the keywords that don't convert, bag 'em. Expand your focus to reach broad based keywords as well as long tail keyword phrases. The narrower the keyword is, the more likely the user will convert on your page.

Widgets are In

What is a widget? Widgets aid in the process of interacting with your target audience. When your potential customer/buyer installs your widget on their webpage, blog or social media networking profile - you wín a valuable fríend! Widgets provide a great way to strengthen the bond between your existing customers and any newbies who are interested in your product. Get new customers and provide a widget for them to interact with you. Personalization is "key". Almost anything can become a widget - from games to stock tickers or audio players - put your thinking caps on and give your customers the option!

Smarty Pants Always Test

This is true. Successful websites are successful because webmasters test their work. A great way to test your website to see if your design is working is through the A/B Split method. These tests run concurrently, at least for a couple of weeks to gain true results. A/B testing provides real world, data-driven, unbiased results based on your target market. There is now even an easy to use A/B Split testing program through the Google Website Optimizer tool! Check it out and win big. Go ahead - be a smarty pants... you know you want to!

Time to Analyze

Yes, folks - it's time to analyze. You might think the hard work is done, but it's now time to see if all your work has paid off successfully. You've created this gorgeous website perfectly equipped with clear calls to action, clean code and search engine friendly site architecture - now what? Let it ride and hope for the best? NO! Test, test and analyze your findings.

Does your hosting company provide a stats program? If so, fire that baby up and analyze what is working, what can be tossed out and what needs to be amped up. Focus on unique visitors, time on site, referrals, and what keyword phrases are driving the most targeted traffíc. A stat program is your fríend, NOT your enemy. Embrace your website's analytics and learn from them to tailor your website, your search engine optimization and your business model after this information. Google also has a free analytics program that involves placing a simple code before the </body> tag on pages you'd like to track. Fast, effective and proven.

If you are a "do-it-yourselfer", I hope these tips helped you with the marketing of your business. If you are too busy and are looking for a firm to handle both the building of your website and the marketing - research a good SEO firm. Count on a professional internet marketing company to shine through and get your hard work to pay off. Good luck!
One webmaster found Google unwilling to index pictures located in an images directory, but some extra content apparently left the site afoul of Google's guidelines.

Here's the short version: don't stick cached content in a directory you want Google to index. Chances are the Googlebot will freak out and run screaming from your server.

Michael VanDeMar wrote at Smackdown how a simple test of indexing images in a subdirectory ended up with Googly accusations of webmaster malfeasance.

Opening a discussion on a Google Groups webmaster help discussion eventually attracted the attention of a Google staffer, John Mueller, who took a peek into VanDeMar's images subdirectory and found some terrifying creepy-crawlies therein:

VanDeMar keeps those cached copies to support his discussions, as such pages can and will change regularly, or disappear altogether from sites. Doing this in a place where Google expects not to find such content evidently put him in a tough spot with the search engine, as Mueller suggested it ran counter to Google's webmaster guidelines.

The difficulty appears to be in the nature of the cached pages. Mueller thinks it's duplicate content, VanDeMar believes it isn't, based on his reading of the guidelines; he further questioned why the entire subdirectory received a delisting from Google.

The obvious solution, as one commenter suggested, would be to place the cached pages into a different directory and tell the Googlebot to stay out of it. Whether or not it's the fairest solution for webmasters won't figure into the decision, as Google has really dug in on quality issues it perceived over the past year.

Do not design websites without thinking about SEO concerns. You should have your web designer understand what you need to create good organic SEO. Spiders can crawl text, not Flash or images. Use keywords and keyword phrases appropriately in text links and back links, image ALT attributes as well as your domain name. Check for canonicalization issues ? www and non-www domains. Know what you want to use and 301 redirect the others to it. In other words, if http://www.cyberlinkpro.com is your preference, then http://cyberlinkpro.com should redirect to it. Check all of the text links to your home page throughout your website. Is index.html appended to your domain name? If so, you are splitting your text links. Outside links go to http://www.cyberlinkpro.com and internal links go to http://www.cyberlinkpro.com/index.html. Get rid of the index.html or default.php or whatever the page is and always link back to your domain. Frames, Flash and AJAX all share a common problem ? you cannot text link to a single page. It is either all or nothing. Do not use Frames at all and use Flash and AJAX sparingly for best SEO results.

Keeping cached copies of content sounds like a prudent course of action to take. It helps keep site visitors from clicking into a non-existent page, which makes the linking site look bad. If Google consistently dumps subdirectories that mix cached and original content because the company thinks duplication is in effect, webmasters will have to alter their linking structure to accommodate the fussy Googlebot.

Many blogs are abuzz with the news about a recent fake piece of linkbait that ended up capturing the eyes and ears of many big traditional news outlets and bringing the originating story thousands of backlinks. After the community went up in arms about the "snakeoil" tactics of this piece of bait, Nick Wilsdon and Barry at Search Engine Land talk about the ramifications of the action, especially with how Matt Cutts is responding to it from a Google perspective. In a Sphinn thread (that is REALLY long; you have been warned), Matt says:

My quick take is that Google’s webmaster guidelines allow for cases such as this: “Google may respond negatively to other misleading practices not listed here (e.g. tricking users by registering misspellings of well-known websites). It’s not safe to assume that just because a specific deceptive technique isn’t included on this page, Google approves of it.”
There’s not much more deceptive or misleading than a fake story without any disclosure that the story is hoax.

Numerous forum members at Sphinn are disappointed in the approach taken here, especially since it was fake and deceptive. Others think it's unfair for Google to assert control over web content. Yet others understand that Google wants to link to the most trusted and relevant website, so they're going to obviously take action. I'd argue that the piece of linkbait in question is the most relevant piece of the pie here and should rank #1 for the query.

The question is: what would happen if nobody admitted that the linkbait was fake and everyone assumed it was true? Even if people contest the motives of this particular piece of linkbait, it was confirmed as fake, but do you really think that every piece of linkbait out there is legitimate?

A very good habit of link building is to link out to others to attract links. If you take the initiative to link out first, others might reciprocate the same. The rule of the thumb is to link out to the relevant sites that add valuable resources and information to your readers.

It isn’t rocket science. Linking out requires minimum effort on your part, so to speak. Only in some rare occasions - well, I’m on the optimistic side, you don’t get the links back but at the very least, you get the attention of those you link out to.

The benefit of guest posting should never be underestimated. It’s your one-time opportunity to showcase who you are in front of your host audience. Making guest appearance helps raise your profile as a blogger and allow for links back to your own site.

Though guest posting isn’t as effective and viral as article marketing, I’d not discount its effectiveness.

Article marketing remains the best strategy to draw traffic to your site which usually convert better than typical search traffic. Plus, it gives you contextual links back to your site. You can write one killer article, submit it to article directories such as Ezine Articles and watch your one-way incoming links explode almost like magic.

People have been using this method to build links to my niche sites successfully.

As search engines consider your inbound links as the most important factor to score your website, it's highly important to increase the search engine ranking for your keywords as much as possible. Hihger search engine rankings can be achieved through our www.cyberlinkpro.com program. After just a few months you will see our quality one way links that link directly to your website without the need for a reciprocal link will drive increased traffic and higher rankings to your website.

Give CyberLinkPro a shot for a few months and it is likely that you will stay with us a long time.

One-way links: Why you need them and how to get them

One-way links are links to your site from sites which do not receive a link from your site.

They send a powerful message to the search engines - that your website is so valuable or interesting or useful that other sites want to tell people about it.

One-way links are wonderful things to have because they increase your link popularity - the number of pages linking to your site. Search engines such as Google place huge importance on link popularity when ranking your site.

You can also receive direct traffic to your site from people who click on the links.

All links to your site are good, but where possible always aim for topic-related links.

Late in 2005, Matt Cutts of Google made it plain in his blog that Google frowns upon sites which "overdo" reciprocal links. Heed his warning and try to make as many of your links as possible one-way links.

Give CyberLinkPro a shot for a few months and it is likely that you will stay with us a long time.

Ways to get one-way links

Create a useful, interesting web site and other sites will naturally link to it. The vast majority of the thousands of links to THIS site were not requested.
Submit your site to major directories, such as Yahoo! and DMOZ.org, in the appropriate category .
Write articles and submit them to newsletters which are then archived online to get links.
Hunt for sites that complement yours and ask them to publish your articles to get one way links.
Submit brief, useful hints to newsletters for the same reason, to get one way links.
Submit articles to article directories. You can speed up this tedious work by using ArticleAnnouncer, the tool professionals use to get links.

Publish articles on your site and invite other sites to publish them on their sites, with a link to you.
Write testimonials for products you love to get one way links. Companies often post testimonials on their site with a link to the submitting site. Joe Vitale has taken this tactic to extraordinary lengths. For examples, trying doing a search on Google for "joe vitale +testimonial".

Participate helpfully in forums which allow a text link to your site in a signature. Start with the friendly, helpful AssociatePrograms.com affiliate forum to get links.

Read the forum instructions first, or you risk making an ass of yourself.
Consider buying text link ads on other sites, for example from Linkadage or Text Link Ads. (Remember that Matt Cutts has written unfavorably about buying links.) Better still, arrange for articles to be published on other sites with a link to your site in them. You may have to use some innovative thinking to achieve this. The results make the effort worth while to get the links you need.

Buy ads in newsletters on your topic which are archived online.
Locate industry-specific directories and submit your site to them. For example, if your site is on a health topic, look for health-related directories.
Give away free ebooks and white papers that contain links to your site.
Create simple web-based free software. Tell other sites, newsletters and forums about it and ask for a link to it.
Create downloadable software which contains links to your site.
Get listed in business directories.
Create a blog and get it listed in blog directories.
Join business associations which list their members' sites online.
Write regular news releases and submit them to topic-related web sites and Internet news wires such as PRWeb and Business Wire.
Make arrangements for other sites to archive your newsletters on their sites.
Get your white papers published on other web sites.
Submit your free ebooks to ebook directories to get links.
Submit your downloadable software to software directories, such as Download.com
Locate a popular site in your niche which would appreciate having you as a regular columnist. Write tips, lively commentary, product reviews, or whatever topics suit your niche.
Syndicate your material to other sites. Create a content syndication feed (RSS feed) and include a link to your site. Use PHP rather than Javascript to ensure search engines parse your headings and links.
Do something funny or outrageous or brilliant and people will link to your site without being asked.
Use gimmicks. If people see something odd on a website, they'll often tell other people about it. You can also alert newsletter publishers and suggest they mention your gimmick in their newsletter.

Give CyberLinkPro a shot for a few months and use our one way linking program to increase your rankings and SEO traffic and it is likely that you will stay with us a long time.

Want to increase your PR and traffic as well as providing high quality
website recommendations for your visitors? If you have a good quality site you should not be afraid that your visitors will leave your site. The will leave your site eventually anyway and having other links show you believe in your site and have nothing to hide. if you only link to other quality sites you are providing value to you visitors and in return you get links from other quality sites to your own and you know what that will do for you.

Getting Backlinks: How To Get High Quality One Way Links To Your Websites
There are basically two aspects to SEO, "on page" & "off page" optimization.

"On Page" SEO is easy because it's totally under your control. It's simply a case of making sure you have optimized your web pages correctly.

OK, so there is a bit more to it than that, like keyword research, keyword density & frequency, which html tags to use, making sure your site/pages are W3 Compliant, using relative/absolute internal linking structures to feed the pagerank where it's most effective, using titles and descriptions that encourage people to click through from the SERP's etc.

But essentially, once you know how to do all that, it's not difficult to get it right for all your pages/sites.

It's also less important in the long run than getting sufficient links to your site/pages from other sites.

Getting links to your site is fundamental to getting visitors, and without visitors all the time, effort and money invested in getting your site up and running, and looking "nice", is irrelevant.

No Visitors = No Point!

So links are essential to the health of your site, and indeed your business, but all links are not equal in value to your site.

Reciprocal links will help, but they are far less effective than one way backlinks, i.e. links from another site where you don't have to link back to them. These "One Way" backlinks will give your site a far greater boost in the search engine results and bring you more traffic, providing of course that you have chosen good (relevant) keywords for your links.

Boosting Link Strength

Almost without exception, your homepage is the strongest and most important page on your website. It guides your visitors around your site, it nudges search engines in a certain direction, or it may even be your call to action page.

No matter what the case, the links coming from this page will carry the most strength within your website. However, often times we waste this valuable link strength on pages within our site. Often robbing other, more important pages of the link boost they need to be noticed by search engines.

Our Terms and Privacy pages often fall within this category. While they may be important pages to my visitors, I generally do not care if these pages are highly ranked in the search engine results and I certainly do not want these links to take away from my other links on this page.

With this in mind, I will use a no follow tag on these links. However, because these pages are important to my visitors, I will do this only after I have made sure these pages have been spidered by the web bots and show up in search engine results.

Adding the link attribute is easy to do. All you need to do to add this no follow tag within those links, is simply add rel="nofollow" after the URL in your link.

Yahoo just filed a patent application that has been attracting much interest in the SEO community. It is for “An Automated System to Improve Search Engine Optimization on Web Pages”

The abstract reads:

“A system and method for automated search engine optimization (SEO) are disclosed. The automated SEO may analyze search query logs, or a search log database to determine popular concepts/units, which may be automatically utilized to optimize a site or page for search engine results. The site or page is edited based on the automated SEO. In particular, the search log database may provide a unit frequency list reflecting the popularity of various units. The more popular units that are related to the content of the page may be used in the automated SEO of the page. The unit frequency list may be compared with the existing units of a page, so that the more popular concepts within the page may be emphasized.”

Yahoo’s proposed automated SEO essentially includes automatic keyword insertion or replacement. Popular keywords are incorporated into a web page so that the less popular keywords are replaced with similar but more frequently used ones.

There seems to be something terribly wrong about an SEO service provided by a search engine. It screams conflict of interest and this is precisely why Google sold off Performics. “It’s clear to us that we do not want to be in the search engine marketing business,” Google’s Tom Phillips wrote in the search engine’s blog referring to the company’s plans of selling the company. “Maintaining objectivity in both search and advertising is paramount to Google’s mission and core to the trust we ask from our users.”

This service could give the websites using it an unfair advantage should the application be made available to the public. The application somewhat confirmed this saying, “Based on the relative popularity of particular units (as determined by the frequency with which the particular unit is searched for) the search engine optimizer may make changes to a page to optimize its presence and position in search results for popular searches.”

The SEO community is abuzz with opinions on the ethics of the application. There are those that find it interesting that Yahoo is trying to expand the scope of SEO while Google is going through great lengths to streamline it and minimize it. For its part, Yahoo’s Manager of Corporate Communications says that it’s too early to get worked up by the service because it is still but a patent application.

Why SEO?

According to a Forrester research, “over 80% of internet users reach sites through search engines,” so you’re missing a lot in terms of generating free traffic if you haven’t improved on your current online marketing strategies. And here’s another fact that might make you look at the prospect of search engine optimization from another perspective. A study conducted by the NPD Group, a market research firm, found that “55% of online purchases were made on sites found through search listings.” This only goes to show that you need not spend a lot just to attract more sales activity. Improving your organic search placement can help you get the increased revenue that you’re aiming for.

Top techniques

One of the worst mistakes that you could commit in the face of the global financial crisis is to slash out your marketing budget. These days, you need more than just a great product to attract consumers. You have to exert more effort to get this product known and make it more accessible. As it happens, search engine optimization figured as the most effective marketing tactic in practice today. According to a poll conducted on internet marketing tactics, SEO ranked first among 41 other techniques at 36% with blogging coming in at a close second with 33% of the votes. Other highly recommended online marketing strategies include pay-per-click and email marketing.

Link Designing

Typically a link consists of 2 parts. URL (this is the web address of the site that your link points to. Anchor text (this is the visible text of the link or backlink) Having keywords that relate well to your site to be used as your anchor text is an important element of buidling your links to secure a higher PR and more traffic and rankings for your website.

1. Keep your website nice and have something everyone wants to see. Take pride in your website so people will link to you. 2. Write quality reviews about the products you are selling. Do not link back to your site at all. 3. Contact other sites in your field with relatively low PR to see if they will write an article for you. 4. Your goal is to get a good PR or at least good traffic so it is time to work on promoting your original site with links and link building. 5. Contact higher PR sites and ask them to link to your original site with no outgoing links.

Ways to get one-way links to your website.

Create a useful, interesting web site and other sites will naturally link to it. Submit your site to major directories, such as Yahoo! and DMOZ.org, in the appropriate category. Write articles and submit them to newsletters which are then archived online for future linking purposes. Hunt for sites that complement yours and ask them to publish your articles and one way links. Submit brief, useful hints to newsletters for the same one way links. Publish articles on your site and invite other sites to publish them on their sites, with a one way link to you. Write testimonials for products you love. Companies often post testimonials on their site with a one way link to the submitting site. Participate helpfully in forums which allow a one way text link to your site in a signature. Buy linking ads in newsletters on your topic which are archived online. Locate industry-specific directories and submit your site to them. For example, if your site is on a health topic, look for health-related directories. Give away free ebooks and white papers that contain links to your site. Get your white papers published on other web sites to get one way links. Submit your free ebooks to ebook directories for one way linking. Create a content syndication feed (RSS feed) and include a one way link to your site. Use PHP rather than Javascript to ensure search engines parse your headings and links.

Reciprocal Links and Non-Reciprocal Links

Reciprocal links are two-way links between different websites. Each site links to each other in an attempt to get better rankings at the search engines. The better linking process such as what is offered at www.cyberlinkpro.com is to get non-reciprocal ONE WAY links. These are one-way inbound links to your website. These ONE WAY links get highest values from the search engines. Make sure your anchor text within the link is one of the best keywords of your website. These type of ONE WAY inks are given more importance in the search engine optimization methods and the search engines also value them very much.

Link Strategy

The aim of every website is to get as many quality ONE WAY links to it. Link strategy is the planning to get quality and relevant links to your website from other popular websites. These ONE WAY links that point to your web page are also called inbound links and the links that your web pages point to the other websites are called the out-going links. Relevant links are those links that originate from other websites whose theme is similar to your website theme. Link building strategy is imperative for grabbing higher search engine rankings. You may be enjoying good page rankings at present or hopefully in the near future due to one way links, but you may lose it due to other websites following good link building campaigns. This may take away your search engines positions gradually, so you need to remain DILIGENT about adding new one way links to your website.

Newsletter publishers

Newsletter publishers as well as website owners are always on a lookout for fresh and interesting content. With well-written and related articles, you can attract the visitor attraction repeatedly. People would want to ONE WAY LINK to your website if you have gripping articles displayed on it; one great article can act as a viral machine for you, thereby increasing the number of incoming one way text links to your site.

Build team of various affiliates

You might be a part of some commission junction or clickbank and would be helping some products owners to advertise their products. Why can't you do the same for yourself? Create team of affiliates and the number of one way backlinks and sales will increase in proportion with total number of affiliates in your team.

Give CyberLinkPro a shot for a few months and it is likely that you will stay with us a long time.

Bookmark & Share this page: