Feed on
Posts (http://donnarose.com/MyBlog/?feed=rss2)
Comments (http://donnarose.com/MyBlog/?feed=comments-rss2)

As many who read this blog already know, I am a sometimes author over at the Bilerico Project.  I find it to be a place of divergent thought, of interesting perspectives, and of freedom to express opinion on a wide array of topics.

When does a particular writer cross the boundary between controversial and irresponsible?  That’s a difficult question to answer.  As far as I can tell there’s no real metric to measure it, but we know it when we see it.  That boundary was crossed yesterday in ways that I find foolish, irresponsible, or simply stupid.

An article titled “No” to the notion of Transgender was posted (http://www.bilerico.com/2009/12/transgender_a_disease_that_doesnt_exist.php) .  It was preceded by a brief explanation from the editor about the goal of encouraging “dialogue”.  This brief explanation in no way removes ultimate responsiblity for what appears on that site from Bil.  He should have known better.

To allow something on that site – a site that caters to LGBT readers – that attacks, dis-enfranchises, demoralizes, de-humanizes, and misrepresents a significant portion of that community isn’t serving some broader public good.  It’s allowing one ignorant man to express an opinion that would be better kept to himself.  It’s like trying to justify Michael Savage expressing his hateful, ignorant views on Bilerico explaining that the goal is to “broaden the discussion”.  Bullshit.  It’s irresponsible and there’s no way to justify that.

As far as I’m concerned, the fact that this article was published demonstrates ongoing profound ignorance of the transgender realities so many of us face day in and day out.  We don’t need some bufoon who couldn’t wrap his mind around anything but the most simplistic notions of sexuality or gender spouting that an entire group of people who risk everything, including their very lives, to live happy productive lives to tell them they’re not real. 

I am tremendously disappointed in Bil and anyone else who was involved in creating this mess.  It’s offensive, it’s ignorant, it’s irresponsible, it’s baseless, and contrite apologies or explanations to the contrary don’t change any of those facts.

It reminds me a bit of when “The Man Who Would Be Queen” was selected as a finalist for a Lambda Literary Award a few years ago.  Thankfully, outcry from the broader community about the baseless “facts” in this book resulted in having it pulled from consideration.  Is that censorship?  No.  It’s fixing an irresponsible decision that should have not been made in the first place.

How does anyone fix this particular similarly irre3sponsible decision?  I don’t know.  What I do know is that Bil has changed the perception that many readers I know have towards Bilerico.  Is it irreparable?  Perhaps.  But as with many things – only time will tell.

I hope both Bil and the author of that post don’t have long Christmas lists.  I envision a lump of coal for them.  This isn’t serving any broader public good.  It’s an affront to me and many of my friends.  Shame on you.

3 Responses to “Foolish, Irresponsible, or simply Stupid.”

  1. Karen Savage (http://www.flashofinsight.com/web/WorkSamples/WorkSamples.htm) says:

    When you look at the URL box while viewing the subject article (or if you mouse over the link above and look at the lower-left corner of your browser window,) you’ll see the file name of that page at Bilerico, to wit.,

    transgender_a_disease_that_doesnt_exist.php

    Psychologists like to point out that past behaviour is a generally reliable indicator of likely future behaviour. Bil Browning has been embroiled in controversies with the trans community in the past. The odds are good that this will happen again in the future before Bil can extinguish that behaviour.

  2. Deanne says:

    I followed the link but the article has been removed.

    I see this as good and bad.

    It is good that the editors of the blog came to their senses and removed some thing that they shouldn’t have published in the first place. In any culture of inclusion, there is no room for an expression of hate. It still would have been better if it had taken for a chance to educate the author on what he obviously does not understand.

    I also believe that removing it is bad. Once this errant article made it’s way to an outward expression it, just like any other expression of hate, can never be removed. Every person that has expressed hatred towards me for who or what I am has left an indelible mar on me. In a way, so should this man’s words.

    We live in a world where sometimes the hate that is not expressed is worse than the ones that are. When I know that someone feels this animosity for things that are beyond my control, I have been for warned. Those that never express it but will consistently act upon their hatred are far more insidious. I never see them coming and I am often blindsided.

    True or not there was a scene in the movie “Milk” that applies here. When Harvey received an inarticulate and childish death threat he posted it on the fridge door. This was done so that they could see it everyday and because if they know where and what it is it couldn’t hurt them.

    I cannot avoid the hatred and prejudice that exists in the world. It is, however my hope to change the minds that can be swayed. Through kindness and education I have done this. I found that there are people that have formulated opinions about me without ever meeting me. When they give me a chance, they can come away with an appreciation for what it means to be a transsexual.

  3. DWKme says:

    Donna,
    The bottom line is…”Stupid is as stupid does”
    D

Leave a Reply

Name (required)

Mail (will not be published) (required)

Website

[ 

[ Submit ]