Welcome to DD Electronics Singapore. You are currently on our worldwide Export website.
If you are looking for our Local site please CLICK HERE  (http://www.ddelectronics.com.sg/?islocated=Yes)

[ Search ]
Hide (javascript:toggle();)

DD Electronics Information:

 (http://www.d-d-electronics.com.sg/pages/About-us.html)

Singapore:
Australia:
US/Canada:
+65 6603 9258
+02 8014 7733
1 866 512 9010

Nikon has released a fast aperture medium telephoto lens in the shape of the AF-S Nikkor 85mm f/1.4G. Featuring a completely new optical design and a built-in Silent Wave focus motor, it also includes Nikon's top-end goodies including a 9-bladed diaphragm, Nano Crystal coating for the reduction of flare, a magnesium alloy body shell and weathersealing.
Filter Size
77mm
f/Stop Range
f/1.4 to f/16
Minimum Focus Distance
2.79' (0.85m)
Magnification
Maximum Reproduction Ratio: 0.12x
Angle of View
28°30' (18°50' in DX-format)
Groups/Elements
9/10
Length
3.3" (84mm)
Maximum Diameter
3.4" (86.5mm)
Weight
21.0 oz (595g)
Supplied with
  • Nikon AF-S 85mm f/1.4G Lens
  • Front and Rear Lens Caps
  • HB-55 Bayonet Lens Hood
  • CL-1118 Soft Lens Case

Write your own product review (#)

This product hasn't received any reviews yet. Be the first to review this product!

Nikon AF-S 85mm f/1.4G Lens

  • FX-Format Lens
  • Super Integrated Coating (SIC)
  • M/A Focus Mode Switch
  • Silent Wave Motor (SWM)
  • Rounded 9-Blade Diaphragm
Price:
EUR: €1,233.42 Change Currency (#)

Increase Your Product Protection with Extended Product Protection Plan From Mackcam

Close (javascript:hide_warranty_term())

Providing you with complete peace of mind from the day you buy.

 Coverage and Benefits:

  • Available for International customers
  • No Extended warranty
    7 Year: €25.62

When you have spent a lot of money on some new equipment, you want to be sure that you'll still be using it in a year or more's time. DD Electronics Extended Product Protection plan offers low cost care for your peace of mind, whatever your purchase.

Extended Product Protection is available on new equipment and provides you with full protection for your product for 3 years and 5 years and on some lenses, it's 7 years . The offer is available on:

  • Digital Compacts
  • Digital SLRs
  • Lenses
  • Flashes/Flashguns
  • Binoculars

Your product is protected from the moment you buy, wherever you use it:

  • Inside or outside your home
  • For professional and domestic purposes
  • Anywhere in the world
  • If your product can't be repaired, it will be replaced.

For more information please go to www.mackcam.com (http://www.mackcam.com/)

This information is provided to help you decide whether to purchase a Extended Protection Plan on the equipment you have purchased from us.

When can I buy Extended Protection Plan:

You do not have to buy a Extended Protection Plan at the same time you purchase your equipment. We recommend you purchase extended warranty at time of purchase to keep all your particulars on the one invoice, however you can purchase any time within 30 days from the date you purchase your equipment.

We will always repair your equipment, subject to the full terms and conditions of your plan, unless:

  • We cannot repair it
  • We cannot obtain the spare parts to repair it
  • We can replace it for less than the cost of the repair
  • We will only replace your equipment if we have agreed to do so before a repair is carried out.

If we do not repair the equipment, we will replace it with equipment of the same or similar make and specification. If your product was not new when you purchased it, we will replace it with used equipment of the same or similar specification or refund the original purchase price of the equipment if the same or similar equipment is not available.

If we cannot reasonably arrange a replacement we will pay refund the purchase price paid. When we have replaced your equipment, your plan will end and there will be no refund of the fee you have paid.

 

What is not provided under the plan:

Repairs or replacement of Equipment or claims under the protection will not be provided or reimbursed if they are still protected by any supplier's or repairer's guarantee or arise from:

a) The Equipment being recalled by us or the supplier.
b) Any modification of the Equipment.
c) Your failure to follow the Equipment's operating instructions.
d) Theft, attempted theft, malicious damage or damage caused by fire or explosion.
e) Floods, lightning, storms, frost or other bad weather conditions.
f) Any problem with the supply of electricity.
g) No fault being found by our repairer with your Equipment.
h) Routine maintenance, cleaning and servicing.
i) Your inability to use your equipment or from damage caused as a result of the equipment breaking down.
j) Cosmetic damage such as damage to paintwork or dents or scratches to the Equipment.
k) Replacement of any item or accessory that is intended to be replaceable. These include fuses, batteries, light bulbs, attachments, cables and plugs.
l) Rust, corrosion or water damage unless you are protected for damage caused accidentally.
m) Problems with: Software, (application or operating system), damage caused by viruses, accessories which you have not told us about in writing.
n) Loss of images and failure, loss or damage to storage media.
o) Any losses you may incur as a result of inability to use your equipment.

International Service Center

For Singapore/Australia /USA  customers you can contact DD Electronics directly to assist with your Mack  Extended Protection Plan  for customers in other countries who  need to have your equipment serviced under your Mack Camera Extended Protection Plan, please follow these instructions for obtaining service.

  1. Contact DD Electronics Pte Ltd  (put the link to repair  form that’s on our site or call us please put on all our various numbers (or see below if you want to go to Mackcam direct)
  2. Download and complete the International Service Request Form (http://www.mackcam.com/repairs/documents/IntlServiceRequestForm.pdf) .
  3. Make sure your service contract is registered online.
  4. Include a copy of your sales receipt for your equipment and service contract purchase, and a copy of your service contract.
  5. E-mail all info to international@mackcam.com (mailto:international@mackcam.com) or fax to 973-467-0776.

DD Electronics Pte Ltd or Mack Camera will respond via email with a control number to obtain an estimate for the repair.

To avoid delay in having repairs approved, please forward the detailed estimate to our warranty department by e-mail atsales@d-d-electronics.com.sg (mailto:sales@d-d-electronics.com.sg) international@mackcam.com (mailto:international@mackcam.com) or fax at (973) 467-0776.

The estimate should include a detailed description of what will be repaired, including part numbers and the reason for the repair. YOU MUST HAVE MACK CAMERA APPROVAL ON ESTIMATES PRIOR TO ANY WORK BEING DONE.

Learn more about our Woldwide Repair Services (http://www.mackcam.com/servicecontracts/worldwide-services.htm) .

[ Close ]

SKU: Manufacture Code: 2195

Sorry but this item is currently unavailable.

Please check back at a later stage.


Customers who bought this item, also liked...