Two Organic Peas In Pod
Freshfetch and The DOGie Bag Natural Pet Nutrition
June 18, 2009

Probably the last time two guys named Smith joined forces on a commercial success, it was mid-1880s Poughkeepsie, the Smiths were brothers and the product was cough drops. Now the unrelated Jay Smith and Mike Smith of Palm Springs, working out of a commercial kitchen in Palm Desert, are producing their own natural freshfetch custom pet foods, and beginning this month, will produce The DOGie Bag line of meals started by holistic veterinarian Dr. Paula Terifaj of Brea.

Both Terifaj and Jay Smith arrived at the similar proverbial rabbit by different paths. Terifaj founded The DOGie Bag four years ago after successfully managing her Boxer’s irritable bowel syndrome.

“My inspiration came from my own dog Rose, who did remarkably well after I stopped feeding her a commercial diet,” Terifaj said. “I then started treating my patients that were suffering from similar gastrointestinal problems with selective homemade diets and continued to get very favorable results. In fact, I started suggesting homemade diets to all my clients who had dogs suffering from other chronic medical conditions, like skin allergies, kidney disease, diabetes, cancer and even senior dogs who had failing appetites. When some of my clients complained that they did not have the time or desire to cook for their dogs, I started offering them samples of the recipes I was making. When my patients eagerly gulped down the samples, the next question was, ‘where can I buy this?’”

Jay Smith’s career has spanned military pilot to high-tech consulting company owner. He is a lifelong dog lover and after his sister’s Boston Terriers developed seizures determined to be caused by diet and after learning of hundreds of dogs dying from tainted commercially manufactured dog food in 2007, he became fascinated by canine nutrition.

“I finally realized I could make better food in my kitchen than most of the food on the market today,” he said.

That’s when he called a longtime friend, Mike Smith, whose education in culinary arts and kitchen experience in well-known establishments guaranteed the end product would be natural and nutritious. They sought advice from breeders and scientific research about the ancestral diets and specific needs of various breeds, and the advice of Beverly Hills veterinarian Dr. Martin Schwartz.

Although Terifaj is rarely seen without a dog in tow, and both Smiths were formerly owned by Retrievers, neither man currently has a dog.

“If I had a dog now, I’d kill it,” Mike laughs – referring to long days spent in the kitchen and other days devoted to sales and promotions. But men said that missing dogs in their lives helps to fuel their passion and both look forward to a future with new companion dogs.

Freshfetchpetfoods.com launched its webstore on Inauguration Day of this year and now has over 120 accounts. Locally, their food is sold at Bones-N-Scones in Palm Springs, Pet-Luv in Cathedral City, and Jensen’s Finest Foods in Palm Springs, Palm Desert, and La Quinta – an accomplishment Dr. Terifaj considers significant and a contributing reason she chose Msrs. Smith to take over manufacturing her own line – “that’s a first for any truly ‘made from scratch meals,’” she said.

Terifaj said that what will distinguish freshfetch from other homemade meal makers is innovative software designed by Jay Smith that can calculate nutrient profiles of each meal they create. That allows them to meet and exceed current standards, allows the addition of key minerals, vitamins and amino acids, and allows them to produce a truly balanced and nutritionally complete diet – only for dogs, for now, but likely also for cats in the future.

“We get a LOT of requests for kitty food,” Jay Smith said.

For more information, visit their website: freshfetchpetfoods.com, e-mail info@freshfetchpetfoods.com, or call toll-free 1-877-4-FETCH-1

Copyright ©2009- 2010 Desert Valley Star - All Rights Reserved.