GREATBRANDDEALS.COM
MEMBER INCENTIVE PROGRAM PARTICIPATION TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

Last Modified September 8, 2010

These terms and conditions describe the participation requirements for the GreatBrandDeals.com membership incentive program and its general membership policies. GreatBrandDeals.com ( GBD ) is solely responsible for the administration of this membership incentive offer. The owners of trademarked names and merchandise used in our promotions do not sponsor and have not endorsed this promotion, nor are they affiliated with GreatBrandDeals.com in any way. All trademarks are the property of their respective owners with all rights reserved.

To become a GreatBrandDeals.com member and participate in its membership incentive promotion, you must be at least 18 years old and a legal resident of the United States with a valid email and mailing address. If you do not meet these requirements, we ask that you do not complete the registration process. Offer not valid to residents of Washington State and where prohibited by law.

How the Program Works:
This offer is available to US residents only. Participants must be at least 18 years of age. To receive the Membership Incentive Promotion gift you must complete all of the steps outlined herein. Prospective members must: (a) submit their zip code to determine geographic eligibility; (b) register with a valid and deliverable email address; (c) submit accurate contact and demographic information including a mailing address; (d) acquire two advertiser action points from each of GBD 's three Offer Groups for a total of six advertiser action points. Action points are earned when a GBD user fully completes an advertiser offer after accessing the offer by clicking on a link provided on the GBD website or from the GBD member area. Attempting to gain action points in any way other than clicking on the advertiser links provided by GBD will result in the cancellation of your GBD membership. Please understand that this means completing two offers from the Top Offers group, two offers from the Prime Offers group, and two offers from the Premium Offers group. The Prime Offers group and Premium Offers group may be accessed from the GBD member area. (e) You must complete and return an Incentive Redemption form after accumulating the required action points. The form may be downloaded from the member area after you have earned six points. Please understand that failure to supply current and accurate address and demographic information on the redemption form may hinder our ability to deliver the incentive gift to you.

In cases of a financial offer such as a credit card, the card must be activated by making a purchase, balance transfer or cash advance in order for the offer to be considered "completed", and the user must remain a card holder for at least 60 days. For paid retail offers you must accept the item/service and pay in full. If a product/item (not services) is returned or canceled, then credit for the subsequent offer will not be awarded. Purchasing retail offers for resale or commercial purposes is not allowed. In order to receive credit for any sponsor offers completed, the billing information must match exactly to the information used when registering with GBD . Additional terms and conditions may apply to participation in select marketing offers. You should read the terms of each offer as provided by the advertiser for an explanation of these terms where they exist.

GBD reserves the right to require individuals to provide documentation demonstrating they have completed the advertiser requirements prior to incentive gift redemption in cases where that information is unavailable from the advertiser.

You have up to ninety days from the original date of your membership registration to complete the membership incentive program and redeem your incentive gift. Your gift eligibility is secured as soon as you complete two offers from each of the three offer groups and submit your Redemption Request Form. Once you meet the offer completion requirements, you will need to login to your account to print off your redemption certificate. Once we have received your verification, your gift will be sent within thirty days. Gift redemptions are limited to one gift per household. If you have registered for multiple membership incentive gift promotions, you will be given your choice of gift items upon logging into your Member’s Area. Action points are not transferable from one incentive gift to another.

Flex Incentive Promotions:
GreatBrandDeals.com also offers several Flex Incentive Promotion  gifts.  Flex Incentive Promotion gifts usually have fewer requirements for redemption than Membership Incentive Promotion gifts and are available periodically to members that register and complete a variety of sponsor offers that appear in both the incentive path in addition to the member’s area.  Depending on the number of offers completed, Flex Incentive Promotion gifts can range from Visa gift cards to a laptop computer.  Flex Incentive Promotion laptops given away in the past have included the Acer Aspire, Compaq Presario, and the Toshiba Satellite.

Quick Completion Bonus Offers (Act Now Bonus):
From time to time, GreatBrandDeals.com may make additional incentive items available to first time registrants if they complete the GreatBrandDeals.com Membership Incentive Promotion (as defined above) within a specified time period of their initial registration session. "Initial registration", as used in connection with GreatBrandDeals.com bonus offers, means the first time any individual submits his or her personal information to GreatBrandDeals.com . Initial registration does not include any subsequent registrations with GreatBrandDeals.com for different Member Incentive Promotions. Bonus Offers are limited to one per person/household.

Miscellaneous Bonus Offer (Presenting Sponsor & Bullseye Bonus):
From time to time, there may be additional bonus gift opportunities available at varying positions throughout our promotions. The specific requirements for receipt of these bonuses will be recited on the webpage where they are offered. Please note that no bonus of any kind will be awarded to any individual who does not first fully complete the requirements for receipt of the underlying incentive gift item. Members should understand that we use various means (e.g. email, web pages, etc.) to promote bonus offerings. Members will not receive more than one bonus gift for completing the same bonus offering multiple times. The Miscellaneous Bonus Offer is limited to one per person/household.

Please note that it may take up to eight weeks for our marketing partners to report to us that you have completed their offer. Please be patient while our marketing partners report back to us. You may check your redemption status at anytime through our member interface area at http://www. greatbranddeals.com /status.php (http://www.greatbranddeals.com/status.php) . Simply log in using the same email address with which you registered.

TERMS OF SPONSOR OFFERS:
GreatBrandDeals.com is not responsible for its sponsors' offers or any transactions that you enter into with the advertisers, sponsors, or partners on this website. GreatBrandDeals.com cannot fulfill a sponsor offer, cancel a sponsor offer on your behalf, refund any charges you have incurred, or service an account you created with an advertiser. You should carefully read the requirements, terms and conditions, privacy policy, and billing practices for each sponsor offer prior to signing up.

REFERRALS:
From time to time you may be given the opportunity to refer friends to one of our web properties in order to receive additional incentive gifts. In order to connect these referrals to your account, we will provide you with a unique link to this website, which you must then distribute to the intended parties. Your referral link will be provided on your custom referral page as well as your custom account page. Any referral that does not click this URL or type it into their web browser accurately cannot be tracked and, thus, cannot be connected to your account. Note that some applications can remove the tracking part of this URL. You assume the risk of this link breaking when using our website. You are responsible for distributing the referral link.

GreatBrandDeals.com will not send out any communications on your behalf to encourage such sign-ups to occur. You may complete more than the required number of reward offers and may refer more than the required number of unique households; however, you are limited to earning only one referral bonus reward per household. Additional referrals or offer completions will not result in additional rewards.

GreatBrandDeals.com reserves the right to screen all referrals for suspicious activity. We reserve the right to determine, in our sole discretion, which referrals are fraudulent or in violation of these Terms & Conditions, and to place on hold or disqualify all accounts associated with an improper referral. Participation in a "conga line" or any other organized system of individuals trying to obtain enough referrals to qualify for the reward is strictly prohibited and will result in disqualification of your account, as well as the account belonging to the person(s) that referred you to the website and the person(s) that you referred.

Express Consent:
By accepting of the terms and conditions of this website, and providing your telephone number, you are subscribing to a service that transmits special offers to subscribers via pre-recorded voice messages.

By subscribing, you are expressly consenting to receive prerecorded telephone messages from The Firebrand Group, LLC, a Nevada company doing business as Worldwide Commerce Associates ("WCA") that include special or discounted sales offers. You are subscribing to receive offers only from WCA, and only at the specific number(s) you have provided to us. Your consent will be effective regardless of whether the number you have provided: (a) is a home, business, or cell phone line; and/or (b) is or will be registered on any state or federal Do-Not-Call (DNC) list, and shall remain in effect until you revoke your consent and cancel your subscription.

To unsubscribe: You may cancel your subscription and revoke your consent to receive telephone calls at any time by either (a) utilizing the opt-out procedure included in any message you receive; or (b) by calling 800-269-0281.

NOTE: WCA does not send offers via e-mail, and is unable to honor any unsubscribe requests sent by other companies. If you are receiving offers via e-mail, please follow the unsubscribe instructions included therein.

Security:
The GBD Web Site has security measures in place intended to protect the loss, misuse and alteration of the information under our control. Our hardware infrastructure is housed in a controlled access facility that restricts access to authorized individuals with positive identification. Our network access to the infrastructure is protected by a firewall protection system. Member information is backed up on a periodic basis to protect against accidental loss. However, we can not guarantee that communications between you and GBD will not be intercepted by others and that information stored on our servers will be free from unauthorized access. While we have taken reasonable precautions to protect this information, you should always use discretion in what information you send to us and not expect that such information will be absolutely free from intrusion.

Links:
GBD Web Sites, as well as the electronic messages sent as part of GBD service, may contain links to other sites or services. GBD is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of such third party sites. If you have a question about the privacy policy of those other sites, please contact them directly.

Tax Liability:
You are responsible for all local, state, and federal taxes on any gifts you receive. GBD requires that anyone receiving gifts valued at $600.00 and above in any calendar year complete and submit a W-9 form from the Internal Revenue Service in order to allow GBD to comply with IRS reporting requirements.  Members redeeming the Flex Incentive Promotion laptop do not need to submit a W-9.

Choice of Laws/Venue:
You agree that this agreement shall be construed and governed in accordance with the laws of the state of South Carolina regardless of the conflict of laws provisions of the jurisdiction where you live or any other jurisdiction. You also agree that the proper venue for any dispute pertaining to this agreement shall be the State and Federal Courts located in the County of Richland, State of South Carolina.

Liability Release:
By participating in any GBD promotion, you release GBD and its respective parents, subsidiaries, and other affiliated companies, and the directors, shareholders, officers, employees, or agencies of any of the above organizations, for any and all liability for any injury, death, loss, tax liability or damage of any kind arising from entrant’s participation in this program, or resulting from acceptance, possession, use or misuse of any sponsor offer or gift. Failure to comply with these Terms and Conditions may result in disqualification from this program. GBD reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to: (i) disqualify from this or any promotion it sponsors now, or in the future, any person it finds, in its sole discretion, has intentionally violated these Terms and Conditions, tampered with the eligibility process, or any other aspect of the promotion; and (ii) cancel or suspend part or all of this program in the event that printing errors, tampering, fraud, unauthorized intervention or other causes beyond GBD ’s control, corrupt or impair the administration, security or fairness of the program. Any attempt by you or any other person to deliberately undermine the legitimate operation of the program may be in violation of criminal and civil laws; and should such an attempt be made, GBD reserves the right to seek remedies and damages (including attorneys’ fees) from you or any other person to the fullest extent permitted by law, including seeking criminal prosecution.

DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES:THE SITE, THE GIVEAWAY, THE PROGRAMS, PRIZES, GIFTS, AND ANY PRODUCTS AND/OR SERVICES THAT YOU MAY RECEIVE FROM US OR ONE OF OUR THIRD PARTY PARTNERS ARE PROVIDED TO YOU ON AN “AS IS” AND “AS AVAILABLE” BASIS AND ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS AND IMPLIED, ARE DISCLAIMED TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMISSIBLE PUSUANT TO APPLICABLE LAW (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE DISCLAIMER OF ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND/OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE). IN PARTICULAR, BUT NOT AS A LIMITATION THEREOF, COMPANY MAKES NO WARRANTY THAT: (A THE SITE, THE GIVEAWAY, THE PROGRAMS, PRIZES, GIFTS, AND ANY PRODUCTS AND/OR SERVICES THAT YOU MAY RECEIVE FROM US OR ONE OF OUR THIRD PARTY PARTNERS WILL MEET YOUR REQUIREMENTS; (B) THE SITE, THE GIVEAWAY, THE PROGRAMS, PRIZES, GIFTS, AND ANY PRODUCTS AND/OR SERVICES THAT YOU MAY RECEIVE FROM US OR ONE OF OUR THIRD PARTY PARTNERS WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, TIMELY, SECURE OR ERROR-FREE; (C) THE APPLICABLE PRIZE TEST ITEM OR GIFT WILL MEET WITH YOUR REQUIREMENTS AND/OR THAT ANY THIRD PARTY PARTNER WILL PERFORM ITS ASSOCIATED OBLIGATIONS IN A TIMELY OR SATISFACTORY MANNER; (D) YOU WILL QUALIFY FOR A GIFT BY COMPLETING ANY OF COMPANY’S THIRD PARTY PARTNERS’ PROGRAM TERMS; OR (E) THE RESULTS THAT MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE USE OF THE SITE, THE GIVEAWAY, THE PROGRAMS, PRIZES, GIFTS, AND ANY PRODUCTS AND/OR SERVICES THAT YOU MAY RECEIVE FROM US OR ONE OF OUR THIRD PARTY PARTNERS WILL BE ACCURATE OR RELIABLE. THE SITE, THE GIVEAWAY, THE PROGRAMS, PRIZES, GIFTS, AND ANY PRODUCTS AND/OR SERVICES THAT YOU MAY RECEIVE FROM US OR ONE OF OUR THIRD PARTY PARTNERS, MAY CONTAIN BUGS, ERRORS, PROBLEMS OR OTHER LIMITATIONS. WE WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR THE AVAILABILITY OF THE UNDERLYING INTERNET CONNECTION ASSOCIATED WITH THE SITE. NO ADVICE OR INFORMATION, WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN, OBTAINED BY YOU FROM COMPANY, ANY OF ITS THIRD PARTY PARTNERS OR OTHERWISE THROUGH OR FROM THE SITE, SHALL CREATE ANY WARRANTY NOT EXPRESSLY STATED IN THIS AGREEMENT.

Changing Your Status: To have all of your personally identifiable information removed from our database, please go to http://greatbranddeals.com/unsub.php (http://greatbranddeals.com/unsub.php) and enter your email address. At the current time, we are not able to offer users the direct ability to delete their information from our database, but we will be happy to delete such information after we receive a request to that effect. Please be advised that by requesting that your data be removed from our database, you will be unsubscribed from GBD services and you forfeit your eligibility to participate in the GBD membership incentive program.

Updates:
GBD may revise this Policy at any time in the future to (i) improve or modify the GBD Service, (ii) reflect future developments in GBD data information gathering, storing and release practices, (iii) comply with applicable laws, and (iv) reflect changes in GBD business structure. Accordingly, you should review these terms and policy from time to time to check for updates. Your continued use of the GBD website shall evidence your acceptance of any changes.

If you do not accept any of the terms of this Policy, we ask that you not complete our registration process. Your registration with GBD constitutes your acceptance of these terms and privacy policy.
You may unsubscribe/opt-out of your membership at anytime by visiting http://greatbranddeals.com/unsub.php (http://greatbranddeals.com/unsub.php) and entering your email address.