
"  It was a widely touted first attempt by an aspiring group and showed great promise for the band in the future.
" "Sure I do, besides there's no way your going to fuck Sam within a month.
" According to this statement in the patent, domains that expire in 10 years are more valuable and legitimate than domains that will expire in less than a year.
" Additional "Best" issues are scheduled for publication in the months ahead.
" After they have lived "like dogs" under Israeli military occupation, Dayan continued, "It is possible that in five years we will have 200,000 less people -- and that is a matter of enormous importance.
" Although many advisors recommend that once you pay off your debt you should shift the money that went for your payments directly into savings (on the theory that because you've lived without it, you won't miss it in the future), you might also promise yourself some portion of that money as a "raise.
" And having put in 20 years with the Marine Corp.
" And if there is no war in 10 years, it will last longer.
" As for how "things turned out," Moynihan comments that, within a few months, 60,000 Timorese had been killed, "almost the proportion of casualties experienced by the Soviet Union during the Second World War.
" Before Tolle even conceived "A New Earth," the Bible described "a new heaven and a new Earth" and shows us exactly how we can inherit them in the future.
" Bloom hasn't played football in 2 years and was bothered by a hamstring injury in minicamp.
" Brooks, the heart and soul of a defense preparing for its first season in a decade with Warren Sapp and John Lynch, was hurt when he was blocked by Casey Cramer on a running play and became entangled with the rookie fullback.
" But with CAP recommendations still a part of their long-range plan, collections problems and challenges are sure to be addressed and overcome in the future.
" Calvin’s missionary zeal is attested to by the fact that within 25 years – from the time John Calvin began his ministry – there were 2000 Calvinist churches and about half a million Calvinists, in France alone!
" Do you anticipate any problems for me in the future?
" For Erica, attending the "Lady Of Soul" music awards in the fall of 2000 was another milestone in a year filled with accomplishment: "Our music came on and everyone was on their feet.
" Gore said energy efficiency will play a key role in the future.
" He told me to go home and take no more than 2 Aleve in the mornings when I had pain and come back in three months.
" His prediction is simple—kiss the traditional book goodbye in about 5 years.
" I can't find any actual dates, but the vague possibility of "someday" is good enough for me.
" I hope to see him on stage someday if he makes it in to the Boston area.
" In a month long saga of frustration for users & denial by BetWeasel that it even was a bug, they finally conceded some 13 days later to put a patch in "Hopefully the next version" .
" In fact, one of the company's merchandising directors was a former trainee who had worked in various roles in six different countries and reached her current position in 10 years.
" In other words, he distinguishes the church and Israel in the future millennial age, but he does not distinguish them in the present age.
" In the two years after the settlement, tobacco industry marketing expenditures increased by 42 percent to a record $9.
" It is my hope that we as a Congress will take steps to protect the farmers which feed America's children and the researchers who may someday cure cancer, AIDS or any thousands of diseases.
" It was a widely touted first attempt by an aspiring group and showed great promise for the band in the future.
" Logically, the child under consideration must be born within 10 months from Joseph Smith's death.
" Meles hopes to someday find a Net-related job, maybe as a programmer – but first he plans to go to college.
" Mr Abdullah said that "We have to add 1,300 MW solar (power) in the next three years.
" My molar brackets had tubes but they were never used for anything in the three years I had my braces!
" The Court in Padilla said: Likewise, although we must be especially careful about recognizing new grounds for attacking the validity of guilty pleas, in the 25 years since we first applied Strickland to claims of ineffective assistance at the plea stage, practice has shown that pleas are less frequently the subject of collateral challenges than convictions obtained after a trial.
" The Role of Gas in the Future of Energy That diversity will require the continued use of fossil fuels, nuclear and alternative energies such as wind, solar and biofuels, but, he said, until "renewables gain a sizeable share of the power sector and cleaner coal is available through carbon capture and storage, I can see only one way of doing it by i .
" The divine purpose in the nin eteen hundred years since our Lord lived on earth is found in the history of the Gospel of the Kingdom.
" The recognition of the greatness of God is the foundation of the glory of those glorious "good times coming.
" The scariest film of all time is coming back to the big screen for a special one-night event, courtesy of NCM Fathom and Warner Home Video.
" The scariest film of all time is coming back to the big screen for a special one-night event, courtesy.
" There was an impatience in Carla's tone, an irritation that, in the two years since her dear Mother died, had become a regular feature of her voice.
" This leaves open the possibility that there would be another congregation Moses might someday be permitted to lead into the promised land.
" Unlike the original, Bride offers a score - they became the norm in the four years between films - and while it sounded thin and flat, the quality seemed typical for the era.
" While they may argue about what needs to be done, everyone agrees that - in one way or another -- ARAI will be a prominent part of the picture in the future.
" With Agency Access at her back, Howard is set to shine her colorful light on the international market within the next five years.
" Within 6 months of starting, I dropped out of college.
" Within three months, Ms.
"' So what he's saying is that one day this man's healthy family started drinking Diet Coke for the first time in their lives, and within a year, aspartame brain tumors had killed three of them?
"'The sculptural expansion developed in only 34 years.
"0" TO A MILLION IN 12 MONTHS.
"And in fact, India can be, as the Secretary said in her remarks today, developing new partners who are able to assume greater responsibility for critical issues in the future," he said.
"And in the future, these pilots will return and would be more experienced.
"And there's no pain for the first time in two years when I reach out.
"Around the world in a solar airplane" - a dream of Solar impulse team will come true in a year or so and they will be on a world trip of 20-25 days around the world with their tiny solar powered airplane.
"Ay, roar well," said Bagheera, under his whiskers, "for the time will come when this naked thing will make thee roar to another tune, or I know nothing of man.
"Barrie doesn't see too many homicides in a year.
"Because no matter what happens in the future, I already have the things that I want most in life.
"But if you ask me what hope I am offering to the Israeli public, I propose setting a series of national goals: bringing a million Jews within 12 years, so that by 2020 the majority of the Jewish people will be living in Israel; developing the Negev, which is the last reserve available for Jewish settlement; and renewing education according to Zionist principles, which will restore the sense of the justice of the struggle and the feeling that we have a full right to this land, ideas which have been very much eroded in recent years.
"Doing too much explains why, in one study, 80 percent of conventional dieters regained the weight they'd lost within one year of stopping their diet-it's east to sustain an ambitious regimen for a short time, but most dieters soon return to their old ways.
"Each and every one of these innovations excellently fulfils the most important of our requirements: they benefit mankind as broadly as possible, both today and in the future," says Dr Stig Gustavson, Chairman of the Board of Technology Academy Finland.
"First of all, they've obviously made an investment to outsource in order to secure presence in the future and economic gains and advantages.
"For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but according to their own desires, because they have itching ears.
"Formula 303 works better than any similar product I have used in 28 years of practice.
"Go thou down quickly to the men's huts in the valley, and take some of the Red Flower which they grow there, so that when the time comes thou mayest have even a stronger friend than I or Baloo or those of the Pack that love thee.
"Growing up in ten months of winter and two months of mosquitoes, you were forced to stay inside with guitars or else go outside with hockey sticks," Kenny says as he summarizes his growing up in Winnipeg.
"He might be a champion someday.
"He will finish this book someday, and then.
"He’ll make a wonderful priest someday.
"His wish to remain a member of the council and to continue as a young person in public life was demonstrated by his commitment to return to London to ensure he could continue in this capacity when his travel opportunity concludes in the next few months.
"I am grateful to the staff and board for their many contributions, and I am certain that Al Barber will provide dynamic leadership in the future.
"I believe, for instance, that the time will come when a man with a bad kidney, if he has good money, will be able to go into the open market and purchase a good kidney of some one else who has a good one, but who needs the money more than he needs the kidney, and have it inserted in the place of his imperfect one.
"I haven't had a vet in in about 12 years.
"I know more churches that have started bike communities and within 18 months, they don't exist anymore," said McGee, pastor of the men's ministry at Savannah Christian Church.
"I look at the costs I'm facing in the future and it's daunting.
"I recouped all my investment into eOneNet's course within 3 months, became a full-time crystal seller online, and won a Yahoo top seller award within 6 months.
"I think Arizona may someday become the leading state in algae biofuels," he said.
"I think he’s going to be one of the greatest fighters in the future," admitted Williams afterwards.
"I think in the next 15 years more than half of users will be accessing services through mobile devices," Mr Irving told BBC News.
"I think we'll see much more of this in the future.
"I thought that I would maybe someday soon be looking into her eyes - although not quite like that.
"I wish to say that my life has been truly blessed by the wonderful life my father has shared with me and someday I hope to share with one of my own .
"I would think that if you understood what communism was, you would hope, you would pray on your knees that we would someday become communist," and "The peace proposal of the Viet Cong is the only honorable, just, possible way to achieve peace in Vietnam.
"I'd love for it, in 10 years' time, not to even be an issue in sport, and for people to say: 'So what?
"I'm looking at climbing Mount Everest in two years.
"If the White Whale be raised, it must be in a month and a day, when the sun stands in some one of these signs.
"If, in the future, a good man or good woman should hear the name of this Bodhisattva and should praise or worship him or invoke his name or donate offerings to him as well as paint, sculpt or mold his image, he or she will be reborn in the thirty-three heavens for one hundred turns and will never again fall onto the evil paths of existence.
"In 10 years I will be 42, which I think is still relatively young, so I'd hope that I'd still be able to be doing what I'm doing right now.
"In 20 years I've never seen anything like it.
"In 20 years, the number of Alzheimer's patients is expected to increase to 7.
"In that moment I melted into a recognition of the absolute perfection of existence and rightness of all things, including whatever might happen in the future, so long as I remained surrendered to that sense of God as the source and centre of my being - body, mind, soul, will.
"In the 11 months since we've had the loan, we've already paid off $40,000.
"In the 16 years since Bat I, the rest of us have come a long way -- but Loaf and his partner in crime, Jim Steinman, are stuck in some sort of time warp.
"In the five years since she joined the Girl Scouts, she is so much more confident.
"In the four years since the inspectors left, intelligence reports show that Saddam Hussein has worked to rebuild his chemical and biological weapons stock, his missile delivery capability, and his nuclear program.
"In the future I must return to this subject and I will show you then that the coming of the Messiah, of the Lord God of all, not only saved humanity but contributed to the redemption of all those who has passed out of physical life, of the millions yet to be born, and of a myriad of other beings of which as yet you are ignorant.
"In the future, energy demand will be constrained by tight supply," Arnaud Chaperon, Total's senior vice president for electricity and new energies, said in a presentation to a nuclear energy conference in Qatar.
"In the future," contributed Aaron, "I predict that women will be twice as powerful, ten thousand times larger, and so expensive that only the five richest geeks in Silicon Valley will own them.
"In the name of the people of the United States to whom you Boulder Dam are a symbol of greater things in the future and in the honored presence of guests from many nations I call you to life.
"In the next year or two, I am leaving Laffite's.
"It is my hope that Congress will take steps to protect the farmers which feed America's children and the researchers who may someday cure cancer, AIDS or any thousands of diseases.
"It is our hope that in the future, by correcting nighttime breathing patterns we will be able to stimulate hormone production and thereby raise libidos.
"It was a long time coming," she said.
"It will be the first time in several years that all five starters have returned.
"Little things, perhaps, but only by observing the little things can the time come when the great surrender is made.
"Live from the BBC" sold six million copies within three months.
"Many of them could fail within a year," the document says.
"Marilyn Lee did a fantastic job of telling this story, and I am rooting her on writing more Bloodlust stories in the future.
"Maybe I'll tell you, someday.
"Maybe someday I'll tell you the story about my Great-great-granpappy, the REAL wildbill.
"Maybe we'll see a cat someday Abby.
"Modern intensive ploughing has arguably done more damage in six decades than traditional agriculture did in the preceding six centuries.
"Now that the Cabinet has cleared this, we will now ink the agreement with TCS and the main clause is that they should start construction in a year's time, failing which a penalty clause would apply," Technopark Chief Executive Mervin Alexander told.
"Now we can use the simple criteria from this study, which is widely available for anyone who has PSA testing, to identify men who have a greater than 25 percent chance of dying from prostate cancer in the next five years.
"O Manjusri, then the elder's son consequently took his vow, saying, `I now vow that I will provide, throughout incalculable numbers of kalpas in the future, for the sake of all sinful, suffering beings on the six paths of existence, extensive expediencies to cause them all to be delivered and liberated before I myself realize Buddhahood.
"Obviously his partners in Tool understand he needs his time for A Perfect Circle, and obviously Maynard is going to give his time to Tool when that time comes.
"Our Investment in SEO with A+ Search Engine Marketing was paid back within 3 months.
"Our expectation is that this work will not only benefit the domestic requirements for the C919 aircraft, but also maybe export opportunities at some point in the future," he said.
"Our gap time was 19 seconds which is the lowest it has been in about five years," the coach said.
"People have imagined that if we stopped emitting carbon dioxide the climate would go back to normal in 100 years, 200 year - that's not true.
"Plus, with competition at a high level across the sector, and set to continue, good customer service may be seen as a key differentiator between universities in the future both from potential students and more widely from key stakeholders.
"Renewing a domain name for 10 years or even 2 years ahead of time means that I have to spend more money.
"SOMEDAY" ( and, hopefully in the not too distant future ) people, the American Nazi Party will once again be placing the Swastika and National Socialism into the American "political process: - like happened back in the 1970's, when the old "NSWPP" was actually winning double-digit voting returns, around the nation.
"Since installing MPI, we realized our return on investment within three months.
"Someday I will have time for crafts and things - which I love.
"Someday we'll leave this place; I promise.
"Someday, after we have mastered the winds, the waves, the tides and gravity, we will harness for God the energies of love and then, for the second time in the history of the world, man will have discovered fire!
"Someone has to be first," was the stark pronouncement of Jacob Kohnstamm, president of the Dutch Voluntary Euthanasia Society, who predicted the practice will be legal in most countries within 25 years.
"Thank you for our greatest hunting camp in 30 years, your hospitality was super.
"The Ludi Saeculares ["Secular Games"] were required to be celebrated once in 110 years.
"The biggest thing for me was trying to figure out where those guys were going to be moving in three years.
"The delay is because we're trying to give contractors a better chance to understand commodity markets and construction markets in the future.
"The first phase of the centre would be operational in 18 months once TCS starts construction.
"The level of inflation is three times as low as during the same period last year—inflation in seven months of last year was 10.
"The program which is making the biggest difference in my 60 year old noggin is Mind Sparke by Martin Walker.
"The sites that will be added in the next year will feature some of the hottest, newest girls and guys in the industry doing what they do best, having lots of real sex and letting the fans into their life as porn stars!
"There is unmistakable evidence that Saddam Hussein is working aggressively to develop nuclear weapons and will likely have nuclear weapons within the next five years .
"There's a really good chance that we will be up there again in the next decades," said Jay Correia, a California state historian who manages the registration process.
"These changes mean processes that used to take three to five years will now be reduced to six months for certain projects like those under the build-and-sell concept, high impact ones, those involving foreign investment and that of the government while for others, approvals will be made within four months," Abdullah said.
"This could help with budget planning in the months and years ahead.
"This fishery is off to the best start we've seen in several years," said Doug Milward, ocean salmon manager for the Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife (WDFW).
"This is the best time in my 20 years of building to (remodel) a home.
"This is the first commercial dry cargo vessel to be built in the United States in 10 years," said Richard Vortmann, president of NASSCO.
"This is, in my personal view, the first true window of opportunity for major restructuring that I've seen in my 35 years," Pringle told CBC News, referring to his long career with social service agencies in Saskatoon.
"This might seem a long time coming – 65 years – but it is a mark of the gratitude we have for you…The time you spent in Europe helping us, it was extremely important, and we want to thank you for that.
"This profoundly challenging and richly erudite analysis of American political and cultural pessimism-the sense of despair about our loss of control over the democratic process-is essential reading for anyone involved in interdisciplinary studies, or who wants to understand where we are today, why we got here, and what if anything we can hope for in the future.
"Today, I am announcing a new plan for rebuilding and modernising America's roads, and rails and runways for the long term," he said in a Labour Day speech Monday in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, two months ahead of November elections in which poll watchers suggest Democrats could lose their control of the Congress.
"Toy Story 2" was about loving others, even if it means you might get hurt someday.
"Traffic deaths at lowest in 60 years" touted USA Today  on the front page.
"Unless action is taken within the next five years and unless the ship is dry-docked within the next 10 years, it will be effectively gone.
"We are encouraged to see the first quarterly national appreciation in three years," said Kevin Marshall, President of Clear Capital.
"We are grateful for Senator Voinovich's interest and support of Starr Commonwealth and we look forward to his continued support in the future.
"We are hopeful that this approach will ultimately help preserve off-road recreation for America's families, both now and in the future.
"We are looking into conducting actual tests for sickle cell in the future.
"We are simply launching as a mobile porn directory today, but in the future, we want our users to consider us much more than a cell phone porn directory site.
"We can say that in the 15 months of the intervention that we've now got unprecedented levels of killing," Mr Dooley said.
"We hope to increase the number of senior consultants in the channel by a further 200 percent in the next year, and will continue to provide our existing and future partners with comprehensive education, support and training for our innovative user virtualization technology.
"We look forward to doing business with GAC in the future.
"We would be very happy if this meagre percentage is doubled in one year and there after every year, at least if we can come up to about 15 percent to 20 percent," Mr.
"We've had a good time here every time we come.
"When the time comes, when there's a solution one way or the other, he'll talk about it.
"When we negotiate the right price for them, they will pay for themselves through monthly energy savings and pay back five times their cost in the future," Kha .
"With WLI growth rising to yet another record high, the economic recovery is highly unlikely to falter in the next few months," said ECRI Managing Director Lakshman Achuthan.
"With age comes wisdom, what they really mean is that with age comes a lot of embarrassing experiences, which obviously you’re never going to wish to repeat in a million years.
"With predicted passenger traffic growth of over six per cent and cargo of five per cent in the next 20 years, the Middle East will undergo one of the biggest aviation growth rates of anywhere in the world, so a world class logistics centre in the region is essential", said Airbus President and CEO, Tom Enders.
"Within 2 months after eOneNet's Internet marketing seminar, I got 10 orders online, including 4 from the US.
"Within 2 months, my site is ranked No.
"Within two years of installation, it's basically been a cure-all for many places," he said.
"Yahoo in three years is a global series of web experiences across a variety of different devices that gives people what they want; the content, the folks that they care about," he said.
"You always have to prepare yourself like you're starting so when your time comes, you're good to go.
"You see, my little ones, that with your own children the time comes when they must go to school, and sometimes it happens when perhaps the previous training has been resisted, that the learning processes come very hard indeed.
"You're the second hitchhiker I've seen in six months.
"[Recruiter Boot Camp] is one of the best classes I've taken in the 26 years I've been recruiting.
"how people would like to be consulted on the annual legislative programme in the future and how best to consult people on a range of individual bills.
#279559 I started playing again 7 years ago.
&#8220;&#8230;Miami based Jen Stark’s vibrant oeuvre of the last few years comes full circle here with works that pay homage to her own prolific trajectory.
' Father Frost repeated his question several times, each time coming closer to the girl.
' His third grade teacher: Fermina Katarina Sinaga "asked her class to write an essay titled 'My dream: What I want to be in the future.
' If Israel does not set a standard for proper custodianship now, its standing to demand such a standard from the Palestinians in the future will be close to nil.
' Since Bernanke is clearly concerned with the inflation expectations of the public, as well as the Fed's credibility, that headline CPI figure may create some complications for cutting rates in the months ahead, unless resource utilization falls out of bed.
' That most skilful breeder, Sir John Sebright, used to say, with respect to pigeons, that 'he would produce any given feather in three years, but it would take him six years to obtain head and beak.
'' Father Frost repeated his question several times, each time coming closer to the girl.
''I look forward to reading other books from her in the future.
''It was as hot and determined a market as I've seen in my 28 years in real estate,'' said Christopher Koren, director of buyers' advocacy group Morrell & Koren.
''We have added a new hotel every six weeks in the last seven years and we plan to add 60,000-70,000 rooms in the next seven years,'' Bickson said.
'Blue moon' is the name given to the second full moon in a month, and it occurs very rarely (as the saying goes).
'I've always wanted kids, so someday, eventually, yes, it will happen.
'If all the doctors of Lorraine and Montpellier had been there with all the drugs of Alexandria,' he wrote, 'they could not have done as much in a year as the said tree did in six days.
'Long Road Out Of Eden' is the first Eagles album in 28 years.
'My customer is very pleased with the product as are we, and I look forward to doing more business with you in the future.
's Anglers Inn in ten years, we got exactly what my bass-starved ego needed.
("Someday, I'll finish.
(1) Replace the promoter within one month as from the date of the death or withdrawal of the promoter, unless the remaining promoters, not less than the number prescribed in Section 16 agree not to replace the promoter.
(3) Apply for registration of an amendment to the memorandum of association in respect of the number of and persons who are the promoters within three months from the date of the death or withdrawal of the promoter.
(9) (#N_9_) In about four years after my father's arrival(10) (#N_10_) in Palmyra he moved with his family into Manchester,(11) (#N_11_) in the same county of Ontario, his family consisting of eleven souls, namely--my father, Joseph Smith, my mother, Lucy Smith, (whose name, previous to her marriage, was Mack, daughter of Solomon Mack,(12) (#N_12_) ) my brothers, Alvin, (who died November 19th, 1824,(13) (#N_13_) in the 27th year of his age,) Hyrum, myself, Samuel Harrison, William, Don Carlos, and my sisters Sophronia, Catherine, and Lucy.
(AFP) - Hundreds of supporters of south Sudan independence rallied in Juba, six months ahead of a crucial referendum that could lead to the partition of Africa's largest country.
(AP Photo/Eric Risberg)  AP - A federal judge cleared the way Friday for California's first execution in nearly five years, citing the state's efforts to revise its lethal injection procedure and a Supreme Court ruling making it more difficult for condemned inmates to delay their death.
(As for limiting rules: you cannot withdraw the money in the first year, and if you withdraw it within five years, there is a three month interest penalty â€“ so ibonds are not the best savings plan after a child reaches about age twelve).
(Be forewarned, though, that providing your e-mail address virtually guarantees unsolicited e-mail in the future.
(C) Whether the property owner has, or will in the future, paid its fair share of the infrastructure needs of the surrounding area, as described in city master plans, subcommunity plans or area plans.
(CNN) -- In signing Argentina's same-sex marriage law, President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner said debate over the issue would be "absolutely anachronistic" -- archaic, out of date -- within a few years.
(CNN) -- Of all the experiences they shared in their 12 years together, Janice Norwood still recalls a special moment when her daughter Kimberly confided in her while they were going into town one day.
(Detroit, USA) - It would be the first time in a decade that one of worlds most beloved DJs would finally return to the United States again for an eagerly awaited show.
(Didn't they say that Saddam will have da bomb ready in three years?
(HNZ) Is A Long-Term Keeper, But Will Struggle In The Months Ahead First Solar To Sell Solar Plant Chart Of The Week: NASDAQ TRIN US Earnings Preview For Oct 5 - 9 Stock Investor Sentiment: The Trend Is Your Friend The Week Has Started Relatively Slowly Read More » F .
(HNZ) Is A Long-Term Keeper, But Will Struggle In The Months Ahead First Solar To Sell Solar Plant Read More » Forex Swiss Franc: The Downside Prevails Japanese Yen: Under Pressure British Pound: Caution Euro: Under Pressure Australian Dollar: Under Pressure Canadian .
(I do, however, reserve the right to use this in the future as leverage when I need him to work on a project!
(I meant to type awesome) RT @TVGuide: Ratings: Emmys Attract Largest Total Viewers in Four Years – http://t.
(I personally have not opened Flash on my computer in literally 4 years, and I hope to keep that run alive.
(I was going to say 'I've only known Greg for a short time in my 21 years but he means alot blah blah') and he quickly said, 'No, you can't say that' and got all narki and upset.
(In a 6 month time period we have seen up to 30% decrease in total body weight, and as much as 155 lbs lost) The key is to define what a low fat diet truly is, and in our case, that is 7-15 grams of fat per day with a calorie intake similar to the patients listed here.
(More prophecies were given by J Potter and John Lacy re Dr Emes resurrection and on January 1st, 1708Potter almost choking said Emes would rise in five months time, on the 25th of May.
(OTCBB:RCMH), a leader in social media technology and media distribution, today announced it has developed a Corporate Profile, a summary of the Company's business strategies, recent accomplishments, its products and services in the rapidly growing mobile applications market that's expected to reach $25 billion in value within four years, and the management team's background.
(Robin MacNeil: "There's been a demonstration in our studio; it was a group of non-violent demonstrators from ACT UP who complained that we and the media are spending too much time and attention on the war in the Middle East which they say will never kill as many people as are dying of AIDS and I told them that this program has spent a lot of time on the AIDS matter and will be covering it more in the future.
(Someday I’ll have more time for reading!
(The Economist) IN THE ten years I’ve lived in New York I forgot how to drive.
(The owners finally landed themselves a general when they named William Eckert  (the “Unknown Soldier” as some wags called him) commissioner despite the fact that he had apparently not actually been to a ball game in a decade.
(The three October 2009 spots, slamming Windows 7, look a little goofy now, and Apple skipped doing holiday spots for the first time in four years.
(There will almost certainly be more in the future.
(This was written in 2007, if you are reading this a year or two in the future, gigabyte-sized downloads may be quite normal and multi-gigabyte downloads may also be common!
(a newer version of where do you want to be in 5 years).
(a) Any new employer or existing employer that previously was not subject to this part shall begin complying with all applicable provisions of this part within one month of the date it became subject to this part.
(a) Three-Year Rule: The applicant must begin and substantially complete the approved site review or use review as specified in the development agreement within three years from the time of the final approval of the site or use review or as modified by a development schedule incorporated in the development agreement.
(click on the special option when you register) - seminars must be used within one year of purchase.
(d) Annexations/Six-Month Rule: If an owner of property not located within the city, for which a development review application is approved, fails to annex the property to the city within six months of the date of approval, the approval shall expire unless the approving agency extends the time period, upon a finding of good cause predicated upon a written request of the applicant delivered to the city manager before the expiration of the six-month period.
(d) If the Bank suspends permanently its operations under Section 5 (b) of this Article, within six months of the date upon which any government ceases to be a member, all rights of such government shall be determined by the provisions of Section 5 of this Article.
(ii) If your car was first sold or leased on or after October 28, 2007, you can obtain a reimbursable repair anytime within 3 years of the sale or lease date.
(view_ad_link-desc-Purchase product worth Rs 10,000 and get Rs 20,000 back in 20 months.
(we will see how good PUMA in the future).
And at Monday's meeting of the New York State AIDS Advisory Council's HIV Surveillance Work Group, data presented by researchers from a joint CDC-UCSF project that was clearly designed to provide support for names reporting (by obscuring through questionable anaytic choices the implications of their findings) which indicated that 85% of high-risk subjects stated that it was "likely" that they'd test in the next year if anonymous/no reporting systems were in place; only 61% said they were likely to do so if name reporting were implemented in their state.
Bride Black Cock He was thinking that she better be on the pill or there is going to be a fucking good looking Hispanic Black baby in nine months, what a great color combination.
But he maintained that it could all be done in a year.
I believe that robust MOSS offerings with third party add-ons will be available at competitive prices within two years.
I hope you too will be in eretz Israel someday; that's something to believe in.
So if his new Cambodian-wife-on-the-way pops out kids in the next few years, he'll still be able to rough & tumble with him.
Some ideas are: Kids’ Music: “It’s OK,” “We’ll Fill The World With Love,” “These Are The Questions,” “Happy Place,” and “What a Wonderful World,” by Rosenshontz; “Proud of Me,” “Believe In Yourself,” “Someday, Little Children,” “Nearly Missed a Rainbow,” “My Furry Little Shadow,” “But I Like You,” “Count Ten,” by Sesame Street; “It’s OK to Cry,” “Growing Up Song,” Eric Nagler.
We will continue to look over the next few months at: changes to TB terminology; strengthening controls on high risk unconfirmed breakdowns; extending the use of gamma interferon testing to all confirmed breakdown herds in the two year testing areas; providing better support for TB restricted farmers by enhancing their options for selling surplus stock.
You initiative to start such a long awaited political party with a much needed philosophy of small government and private enterprise has given me hope in India's democratic process yet again and in the future of India itself.
and I am relatively certain it never will in the future.
and lowered one of my insulin medications from 60 units a day to 12 units within a month or so!
is that the MV numbers include only "really" ACTIVE distributors, rather than "wholesale buyers" who happen to buy $300 bucks in one month out of twelve and therefore got some bonus money.
on TV and really want to be a superstar someday.
to exercise any of its rights or remedies hereunder, will be deemed to constitute a waiver of such provision, right, or remedy in the future, or of any other provision, right, or remedy hereunder, unless such waiver is set forth in a written instrument signed by the President or any Vice President of AllCheapFares.
because in the future we might support more then just smarty, and i am currently laying some groundwork for that(actually i am following some old paths that james wanted to go down as it seems) as a side effect of the TimeControl introduction so to speak.
terminating services, apologizing for poor performance, and many other tough real-life circumstances they are likely to face in the business world someday!
2 or 4 year College Program * License Series 7 & 66 within 6 months of employment.
Buy a Rental Home and PAY IT OFF IN 5 YEARS!
Determine your daily traffic goal (the daily traffic which you hope to see within 1 year ?
In the future, it can fund another $4 billion in transportation improvements.
Within 10 years of quitting smoking compared with continuing to smoke, the risk of dying of respiratory disease decreases by 18 percent.
Within five years of quitting smoking compared with continuing to smoke, the excess risk of death from coronary heart disease decreases 62 percent; death from cerebrovascular disease (stroke) decreases 42 percent and death from lung cancer decreases 21 percent.
indicates a birthday within the next two months.
Additional bandwidth fees are billed monthly and do not participate in 12 month pricing.
In the future (with the Help of Allah, Notes: The Most High): 1) Muslim Credit Union; 2) Medical Clinic; Notes: 3) Home Development project; 4) Qur'an School - for Notes: memorization and proper recitation.
Savings and money market accounts may have no more than six (6) debit transactions in a monthly statement cycle, and no more than three (3) of these can be checks or drafts payable to a third party.
Within five years of quitting smoking compared with continuing to smoke, a woman's risk of dying may decrease by 13 percent.
sigh* Oh well, I hope I meet one someday!
planning personal and professional life for days, months and years ahead + organizing, prioritizing, setting deadlines and tracking completion of tasks VIP Organizer is for people who believe that they manage their lives, not the reverse.
AD4- in 2 months and it fired right up.
(September 18, 2007) – The Anaheim area’s hotel inventory is set to increase by nearly 2,000-guest rooms in the next few years.
2 W/m2 in 50 years, is at the low end of the IPCC range of 2–4 W/m2.
Golf Convergence's diverse areas of expertise stem from nearly 200 years of combined experience that the staff has compiled in several decades of service to the game.
is one of a number of major companies that have had to take a charge on their books to account for a change in the tax treatment of Medicare Part D reimbursements in the future.
it’s amassed losses of $2 billion, making a profit in only two years — $20.
outside of Edmonton, provides athletes 19 years of age and under a chance to participate in a year round program, that includes a 100-game schedule, a baseball specific conditioning program and top notch coaching instruction.
to a much bigger stage of building a plant in the future.
turning off) within a month.
up to 31 votes in a month, depending on the month).
were fined $35,000 and barred from importing pet food ingredients in the future.
where it recently hit its lowest point in four decades.
with the best weather the show has had in several years.
- Attract young people and encourage them to join the Future Movement.
- Within four years of the start of mine production, all power requirements must be sourced from within Mongolia, either from a coal-fuelled plant or from the national distribution grid .
- Within four years of the start of mine production, all power requirements must be sourced from within Mongolia, either from a coal-fuelled plant or from the national distribution grid.
- the time comes when they can say: 'Not only have I forgiven but I've almost forgotten as well'.
--Hochart doubts that Rome, two thirds destroyed by the incendy [sic] [fire] could be rebuilt in two years and a new palace (Domus Aurea) with woods, lawns and lake also.
--Paris, France -- GE Aviation continues to invest in its proven turboshaft engine technology and the results are top-performing, highly reliable powerplants for customer helicopter applications today and in the future.
--["Users/KNT"]<br> + ------<br> + ''2008-09-26 10:06:53'' [[nbsp]] Is there a way we can start a communal DavisWiki photo library for Davis "stock photos" that might be good on one of the pages someday?
--["Users/KNT"]<br> - ------<br> - ''2008-09-26 10:06:53'' [[nbsp]] Is there a way we can start a communal DavisWiki photo library for Davis "stock photos" that might be good on one of the pages someday?
-00-3933</h3><br><br> By: tayor mize<br><br><p>Ebook may have lots of competition in the area of Unless you want to miss out on the most exciting information about short Term Memory in a Decade!
-China Electric Vehicles Initiative designed to put millions of electric vehicles on the roads of both countries in the years ahead.
discography/someday.
tag/software/) knows in the future.
~Deléne Koekemoer, product manager at Crest Chemicals' food   division, says: "Consumer trends and demands will affect new product development in the future, and while organic might not yet be significant in SA, we find that trends from Europe eventually spill over into SA.
0 HH AA% rating is its highest November HH% rating in 4 years.
0 airplane design – design that has not changed in 50 years.
0% of surveyed blogs had not been updated in two months, “representing 2.
0-liter four-cylinder making 140 hp and 236 lb-ft of torque, and either a six-speed manual or DSG automated manual transmission, the 2010 Jetta TDI will be cleared for sale in all 50 states, as opposed to 45 states for all diesels currently on sale, and some coming in the next few years.
00 cottom mouth venom symptoms vinyl siding stock near austin surviving a rattle snake bite dragon lava lamp with clock marilyn's house of ceramics plantcell photo retirement german bishop karl lehmann pilapil maynard dos pueblos high dolores street baptist church fire 1999 learned elders henry ford los cafres si te vas west of piazza venezia travel guide tomeraider3 for windows roomba add to cart service store cartoons that mena hoggish bed and breakfast big island green laser led sharon altman jcpenney mccbg du psychology department graduate program facilities equation of a tangent line pogo tumble bees cheat americana at brand in glendale obama bans budget green technology list rhymes with junior exotic escorts deforest wi rollerblading club toronto centre time hawkes atorney milwaukee finding nemo art sandra h ll sales manager job candidate icecube war and peace quotes about waste of life suspended solids fish strawberry snowball cake recipe seabrook seventh day adventist church maryland wavedashing ssbm page perso gatuite pussyo fisting desigualdades con mas de un signo cost of manufacturing cement tapco repair green island associates articles about greed by sue gral murray o'haire death waters fine mexican women shandong fortune max food co ltd massachusetts addresses reverse real lesbian fuck milf tad's chicken and dumplings fedex angleton tx buy new toyota downey nikon d200 flash units federal rules compromised creatures of revelation universal service ordering code book minnesota munsterlander maps buy econolodge in atmore al investment loss denver spanish muslim center vineland orwellian propaganda drug music of 60 s frank manga woman's black and white clothing flog river frames listings find maine rental properties homes repair blackberry pearl eric kirby americans accept worst country songs islamic coffee house organization donald carter forsyth clerk dubai emirates hills rousseau metals world's largest obese people dan carson lauffer i love boats teacher's supply rosenberg osprey meadows golf course fahrenheit 451 cliff note multiplying exponents calculator how is great is our god naval weapons station charleston designer western boots complete abrasive blasting systems recipes baja fresh roberta capobianco jade peony wayson choy car new show york schwinn airdyne louisville ky selamlar koyu ernie waguespack brown's training camp parking don't pay federal income taxes develope glass negative prints robot seeco sdirty dumb black girls requisitioning executive branch seal jade forest apartment totem theaters anchorage ak sts tires frazier pa ccnt student guide set new france monarce 10th digit vin year designate bug on nude dialog box msi pittbull pupies for sale jacksonville fl spanish marshal arts candle menards federal register osha changes lou mandich wanted write analysis gregory t longpre collegeal financial institution functions little tikes mission table young girls act perfect score flissacken arbeiter buy chance's real's hat national guard theme song where do people hide drugs historic bullet making glam yellow dress free written safety program templates 311 band tour to atlanta tickets the crossing greeley co amerigo armando masonic lodge women songs on dont forget the lyrics guardian angel with black outline kp55012 girly rpg dallas elder care climate change solutions and washington state ashlyne horgan wallace how earthworms have adapted word games polish english most popular asanas grill add to cart service store frequency 233233 toric xr contact lens grayhoud transportation macaruso pronounced hairdo mags nutrition for life catherine saxelby policies of mikhail gorbachev reiner engelmohr parking in minneapolis mn hair elegant on lee road sally papia stories indian huge nipples bouncy breasts eric thorsen will county illinois naturopathic doctor fountain hills monica mayhann kansas cox video on demand departure seattle destination portland flights teachers in the 21st century allthe weab retain carbon dioxide sleep rock wine cellar wall frederick brown ghost big four services nick vitos gilbert az everett sanipass nhl pic e tradebank practice driver perment test trees nurseries in arlington obama bans budget green technology list sean doordan photos nc golden retreiver rescue cd counter key source strike wilding break my stride russell dri-fit coaching shirt t i lyrcis how do video games influence youth pictures off roading lil bow wow and ciara kevin james pussystar blakc boobs motels resorts hawaii maui oahu world gis in business university shawn and tenney bluefield corningware airline reservations processing cumberland mall area snood cracks posi loc jason greg stamm elisabeth h l what landforms are in senegal snorting tank video de paisajes gratis rochester general chestnut risotto siesta key swim races arizona attorney general background checks having 2 periods in one month your ky tobacco resource llc patio arbor building plans there is an ip address conflict noggin dumb black girls games cards global television calgary e funnies building guitar cabinets freecell card game for vista catalog free needlework gindi buy a dogwood tree ephesus cappadocia tours baby center uk cbt planet ccvp the midwest co transunion wont give free report list of web safe colors rhonda feimster islamics power point backgrounds homeownership option program general release ranchi bbs moved o9 lancer tatakau mono tachi download girlss shirts mount belize pictures fire system lic daniel bevington ipod touch january update free fishing vacation package investing in compliance ride british shirts heating pads for cats osborne estate in ireland nike soccer sandal small business payroll services warwick don reinhard divorce gites de france alsace just a little byte my advanced health care taurantula vs scopion scuba zone spanish common islamic names litex fan 52 national softball tournament owensboro ky partenope iceland pride 2008 sheffield academic press website reading a clock in england scc suppliers day directions 2005 tax download recent zits comic caje new york inventor agreements teachers aren t lol daunte culpepper family how hot is the sun's corona qualitative studies on gender equity flights from edinburgh to london implementation template computers recommendations graphics designer fisher hecht architecture expressions beat him like a bad cross for hope ask mike metro atlanta homes for rent raglans road driving tests in guernsey tarzan roy upside down questionmark dallas glass 5 gallon queen songbook tablature memorabilia garmin geko serial cable greeting dialogue wealth sermon silver-tongued nineteenth century ordination cards universal adcom globe latitude and longitude 8 inch raw speaker 4 ohm noce arch stone recording studio the chapel lincolnshire universitie city ramones asthma warcraft download free software game pc sacajawea in 1805 shark anatomy worksheet leather goods made in usa syrup teen star spangled banner vocal certified carpet operator indiana howard county what do rollie pollies eat source of name jay schoomer recovery ethics survey debra reed drd associates lionel buildings suton 25 h flightview homepage united states map of the 1920s color idea's for a mobile home lonestar-im so in love with you ordinal 2251 divx player kennals weston fl mcallen passport services visa ri legal news amsterdam women club georgia affordable dentures retail box printing specs gibbs 98 magazine cadillac canada fird car dealers florence ky vie pictures exeter ontario in the 1900 s midas escorts bath manchester action team royce road kingsley klamathfalls or copyright education rules reprint nurse and easter ornament ms obituaries lego nano peachbottom pa nasty blndes alltel suppliers registration fai soccer camps dublin benefits of the dot-com bust jennifer simios volrath lighograph reality show rehab maternity winnipeg holiday villa alor setar richard meldrum karate eric wainwright square formula calculating area ascot hats 2006 innovative materials and processes squirt treens eroyic exaim finding finance salt springs british columbia haydn's quinten west calder road map computer forensics file listings franklin pierce's public opinion buy land of the lost adult-empire passwords boats albany ny the original skin cap baseball labrum injuries pedruzzi understanding the universe ii using textarticles as a research resource everyday word enlisted record of couciling venice massage what is a club car controler info on animal trapping susanne ernstberger 3 hp briggs and stratton engine baptist saint anthony's club one san francisco reddington instument calabria calabria free myrtle beach vacation them dry bones lyrics marina communities sea island ga biggs unified obama bans budget green technology list sql server kb 20476 church of god in raleigh nc thermo fisher scientific franklin ngbb forum shaqullie oneal and biography pictures cultural patterns dayton gearmotor australian agent maternelles montbeliard france chrystle koller scout shop dan beard way ministry punk knuckle kanata farm genetics girls with size 12 shoes glade endless impressions doheny's carpet covers pictures of tweety bird wallpaper shanna parr the future of drive-in theaters jar lid covers beaches library manitoba wild hogs peter fonda kidde 2176 law abundance check kabana gold turtle csvde import viturtya waney crime time 2007 rockfeler center replacement refrigerator water filter wcbk indiana white pages reverse directory all you ve got soundtrack junio the winds heavy duty twist-lock extension handle reproduction door hardware latch motels in huntingdon speed p c troubleshoot codify the executive order on federalism oakland traffic violation 10 over limit dietitians in kansas city order line turn question ave el narcotrafico oakbay municipality newlife foursquare spanish customs forms usfj 399 wxra 1580 am lexington hell yeah wav music bcaa amino acid forex ecucation instant kiwi montana probate court clerk skinx drugs ethnic groups representation in the news delia aguilar wives kissing bi days of wine and roses singer listview select item physiotherapists jobs in ireland elias irmscher step2 push-around buggy salton gr 26vt quetico institute warcraft 3 custom units remove sophos earthquake san fracisco 1900 morfelden camp sites lovely womenly curves are uncut dicks a turn off leased opal solutions shark euro pro bagless airline luggage size restrictions man of a thousand faces movie hose spud libyan aircraft erich schmidinger orthopedic halufix plate system benefits islamic college the verve guitar tabs find outlook express for my e-mail linings n things maita noche en vela define network access ports small tv stand 13 tv color bar distortion shearwater lyrics parliament act of 2005 puppet holders australia and book printers perfuem market small intel mother boards firing order science fair projects with baseball photos of spine pakistan web pages auto auction dayton timing belt on toyota camry peter townsend coyle unusual menstral cycles and menopause rivaletto deron williams illinois techniques to learn vocabulary blind fiddler photograph glenn capers english translation to vietnamese 47th ave farm just rite mfg ltd bicycle racks oakton communitry college summer staring lineup 1978 pittsburgh steelers operation of the internal revenue service stephanie reed hartley saam debra rae hanson feeney motors in faggotslord mi trappists zundert holland jose rn golf course soil amendments brampton ontario areslux faucet nurses heantai movies the great pyramida at giza chrome hair salon spa edmonton alberta usaf lapel pins nystatin tablet india brand sasuke uchiha clean images delliaux origine weather in towson maryland corsi guida fuoristrada meadview arizona gas stations russian escort agencies manatee sarcasm glucosamine chondritin shellfish free allergies everglades chamber of commrce mid atlantic terminal universal healthcare bad dell 19 lcd monitor ac adapter gibralter trade centre mercedes rims tires abstract scanners covenant presbyterian auburn east valley high school track wrangle stock option position university of pennsylvania press silver boat spooky bondage story photo from voodoo lounge traditional turkey stuffing with rice executive card tables weel horse tractor handsome male model portfolios bemco pumps pirates bouts feldenkrais practitioners in us tejano islamic betsy avery il the world makes who you are mayhaw concentrate for jelly bald chick on star trek blue planet serpentis staying safe in mexico install xp without cd drive member states of the european union oh you a crazy bitch lyrics coubaril globalization graph learning to play the piano free fafsa summer 2008 student loans seal of rochester ny freedom run return to the wall drawn weed leaf small business corporate credit cards jacob komar dorito picture hogtied damsels free ncaa roster download motti latino bolognesi sex before sunrise drink kevin bloc linking rings kens wrecking yard las vegas polaris repair parts brain injuries feline pogo freebies psychology aviation pilot retirement age deals business class travel kinds of plasma devices anatomy of warts head distributing earth day music live salvatierra village kidco g80 easter egg hunt in rockford illinois petula iu amc loews stony brook theatre se dickes b money comes and goes the mobile lifestyle smartphone dea new prescriptions laws central mangement services handmade boppy covers oberlaender arkansas rental properties lazy river poser canadian geese climographs of the iniut salus university hagerstown al-anon meetings shh nurse caw caw caw deadlands boomtowns review mobile home park insurance agent shawnee county history use of isofluorine tub trim brushed nickel aaware se download ddr 266 ecc ram tag heuer supplier bannister philip co phoenix channel 9 roma music maening of interim valuation death dying die absinthe switzerland exhaust system matenance randy miller hirb program picture of companion planting jeans for short toddlers in a yugo song coco chanel family seed transportation parts for garden hose reels earnings for authors erick ogershok donair pronounced wrec ben fuerguson show coffee roasting manufacturers totalizing discourse eldridge cleaver codpiece osteogenesis imperfecta genetic how to disguise your phone number iowa small town newspapers how to finalize cds tdj australia pty ltd when you say love me lesbian sex movies post how to create ftp site baby trade united states of america farmer want's a wife nude olaf dupke the greaseman doug tracht hangover rap ramaha about digital camera wislons leather findlaw fourth amendment hip hop mickey graet depression pictures what does the name frick mean baby huskey learn the radford job codes duck walk paris hwy rv storage rush fargo narrow guage gazette pioneer institute white papers old mag wheels parklane 7 craigs list pixar cars die cast toys treble clef baritone sheet music sansa express cnet vintage sports action figures video fooling around girls locker room dubois community days vinicius de moraes para crian as new homes in santa maria obama bans budget green technology list johnnie's tavern boonton stephanie junker saylorville lake iowa housboat rentals wholesale tire center gilbert arizona grants for elementary singer military post in pictures root canal and no perment crown digital transducer microphone karate 1969 truth about dealer cash rebates palash tree eros escorts tampa reitz roofing spanish immagration csi masterplan zwick 66541 fema equipment the wilds golf general shale brick cortez crosshairs fro oblivion what is the kaballah who are exceptional students recessed lapping machines sarcopenia photo select auto kamloops sc homes fsbo tsuni articles on fasting confederate 3rd national flag 1984 mercury engines unlawful feeding of bobcats in tn surgar and ear infections dish network united states virgin islands ten nail bar atlanta leaving old texas pirate lego ship 6289 seydlitz division skagit wild bird supply tattoo parlor indianapolis nec ultralite 286 external fdd pc-20-31 stratford loan default paid for advertising on car guay de falk n management sales jobs tennessee the lake deyarmond edison mp3 baby girls invetations mommy and me swim temecula phenobarbital side effect star war droid pictures family matters t v show convaluted foam mattress topper buick terraza baby safety quick drying varnish peck new river isis family nj don't make me over by sybil wholesale gift basket container jan esway latrobe easy to play banjo sheet music ti tucson website legend of zelda game map gracht pand catapult plans for free taste of the nation fort collins 10001 lake underhill drive jeopardy teaching spy adventure bar hill msd 90 oregano kents repairing a torn tendon in foot nude men suntanning friedrich air purifiers spanish privet tree hardiness honda goldwing gear oil pink and green ribbons josh rosenbaum oscar fashion 2007 rating bible new testament summary buy gates rubber tools u k facts on artemis the greek myth ruth carey ootheca style beading sourceforge net docbook list thailand billionaires sierra sands unified senate bills prison discoveries by imhotep all that i've got mul-ty gorgeous drunk redhead 4th july at bethany beach events stefan bartlewski how to block aol pop ups glacier s global warming pictures annemarie meixner jereme labatte juicy couture shirt dress virgin the first time clip blacks on plantation good cut downs thailand style homes michael jordon cheating estrategias ortograf a aerican rejects dirty little secerts floor waxing polishing and cleaning giles ransome bensalem pa bc bs fedblue arnold r schlisserman llc shade drawings free nature photography courses belleau woods osgood slaughters knee glucoflex herb pain relief girlsds bears crib accessories human rights family unity university of corvette parts orthodontist pharmacy shoppers homes in the Lala's music locker service riviera girlss clarinets kamp dakota indiana buy a m how to cheat at poker balls park palyground sodomized with curling iron limp bizkit fuck off-lyrics pontiac grand prix parts and accessories stand by rascal flatts instermental west hills cheer pa 6.
00 for a stock it also says that you bought a part of this public corporation and a full return on your investment will be in 22 years, $56 divided by its current yearly estimated EPS $2.
00 for medical care, treatment and medication for her injuries and will be forced to expend further sums in the future for the care and treatment of her injuries.
00 in 4 years.
00); however, OS was not significantly increased (HR for death within 2 years = 0.
05 (174) Josh Lay, CB, Pittsburgh - An athletic corner with size, Lay could challenge for a starting role in the future if he becomes more consistent.
1 billion in three months.
1 million  in the two months between the nominating convention and Election Day.
1 percent in 2008 – an impressive improvement of nearly four percentage points in only two years.
1 percent last week, the first weekly fall in 16 months" and "growth in land prices in Korea also slowed in June for the sixth consecutive month".
1 percent, the biggest decline in nearly 60 years.
1 player as Björn Borg did a few days ago, it’s quite obvious, and especially to those that despise Soderling for whatever reason, that his presence on the men’s game will only loom larger in the next years to come.
1 pounds in four months without any changes in lifestyle according to a new study from Dr.
1 x Ayurslim-Ayurvedic weight loss in 2 month (template.
1) "For the first time in seven years, Harry didn't want to come back.
1, 1900 so I can warn Teddy Roosevelt about Bill Gates buying the state of Washington someday.
10 completed projects were developed by this company within 4 years.
10 million foreclsures in 3 years?
10 per load savings… the maximum I would save in a year is $10.
10 to discuss how the agency has carried out its mission over three decades and where it should go in the future.
10' tall x 2' wide in 10 years.
10' tall x 5' wide in 10 years.
10' tall x 6' wide in 10 years.
100+ pounds lost in one year.
105 of 2010 PCGS MS70 sold by the same seller "siriussportsauctions" in one month.
11 w/ Common, Musiq Soulchild, Slick Rick; National campaign takes off 443,298 pounds, takes on 190,698 participants in 4 months - 10th stop on 14-city U.
11) With this emphasis on youth development and growing ties to Europe and South America, will we be seeing more international and local talent in the future?
12 "So now, the time is coming when I will send people to pour Moab out like wine.
12 points earned within 12 months results in a 30-day suspension.
12) What's planned and expected for the Franchise in the years ahead?
12/15/2007 -- When the time comes to fix a networking problem, the good news is that there are plenty of sources to which you can turn.
123R and total stock-based compensation, dependence on key personnel, attracting and retaining qualified consultants, dependence on outside experts, utilization rates, factors related to its recent acquisitions, including integration of personnel, clients, offices, and unanticipated expenses and liabilities, risks associated with acquisitions it may make in the future, risks inherent in international operations, the performance of NeuCo, changes in accounting standards, rules and regulations, management of new offices, the potential loss of clients, dependence on growth of the Company's business consulting practice, the ability of the Company to integrate successfully new consultants into its practice, intense competition, risks inherent in litigation, and professional liability.
12:46 BE A MILLIONAIRE WITHIN A YEAR!
144 (1992), for only the second time in 55 years, the Supreme Court invalidated a portion of a federal law for violating the Tenth Amendment.
18 in 12 months.
18 points earned within 18 months results in a 3-month suspension.
18 points in 18 months?
1966 - Sandy Koufax, in great pain from an arthritic elbow, won 27 games and, for the third time in four years, led the Los Angeles Dodgers to the National League pennant.
1977 - Berger Inquiry into the McKenzie Valley Pipeline results in 10 year moratorium on development in NWT.
1981 and opened the first animal shelter in Korea five years later.
1981, without contribution of funds by the city, or that there is a plan for financing and construction that has been approved by city council through the capital improvement program and the city council anticipates appropriating such funds within two years of the rezoning.
1985 - Andy North won his first tournament in seven years by capturing the U.
1985 - John Fogerty, former leader of Creedence Clearwater Revival, returned to the A&M recording studios in Hollywood, CA to give his first ‘live’ performance in 14 years.
1986 - Billy Olson, who actually claimed that he was afraid of heights, broke an indoor pole vault record for the seventh time in four months.
1999 - “On a grand night for hitters, pitchers got slammed,” as AP sports writer Ronald Blum put it, “for the first time in 129 years of major league baseball, five grand slams were hit in one day.
1W Will Brown Truck Repair-K&A Excavating/Bicknell machine on Wednesday at Volusia Speedway Park , it was just like old times as Pauch led all but the first circuit to open the 37th Annual Alltel DIRTcar Nationals in victory lane for the first time in 20 years.
2 Timothy 4:8: “In the future there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous Judge, will award to me on that day; and not only to me, but also to all who have loved His appearing.
2 billion Indian Pharma major, and one of the world's leading generics players, is making determined efforts to increase its portfolio of biosimilar products and become a global leader in the next decade in this space.
2 billion has been brought down to "replacement level within seven years" because of its one-child policy.
2 in the future!
2 million socially useful jobs be created within the next four years in the public sector.
2 million) in a year.
2 percent in July, the slowest pace in six months, in a sign of the effect of world economic slowing.
2% which was the highest in a decade.
2, (the highest reading in three months) and up from 58.
2- Would you like to be informed about the last updates on our site via e-mail in the future (only you, not the recipient)?
20' tall or wide in 10 years.
200 posts in 6 months.
2000 to 20,000 in a month.
2004 11 If you could lock in at today's gas price for all your fuel purchases in the next 6 months.
2004 33 Will crude oil prices reach $50 US per barrel anytime in the next six months?
2005 (Apr) - Gulf Gateway Energy Bridge Deepwater Port opened - the first offshore LNG receiving facility and the first new LNG regasification facility to be built in the USA in 20 years.
2005 - (July) - Trident Exploration Corp and Nexen Inc announce plans for first commercial development of Mannville CBM at Corbett Creek with plans to spend $400MM in the next 18 months.
2005 20 With gas prices as high as they are, do you plan on buying a more fuel efficient vehicle in the next year or so?
2007 8 Do you plan on buying a new vehicle in the next 12 months?
2010 29 Last week we asked what the US government should do about the Gulf oil disaster; this week, tell us the main action the government should take to prevent such events in the future.
2010: Part II of the Year Ahead.
21 "In the future when your descendants ask their fathers, 'What do these stones mean?
21 (154) Marcus Maxey, CB, Miami - Inexperienced, but has the size and athleticism to be a good fit as a Cover-2 style corner in a year or two.
21 He said to the people of Israel, "In the future when your descendants ask their fathers, 'What do these stones mean?
22 in three months, $1.
22, GNA- Rubber could be the number one foreign exchange income earner in the next five years, Mr.
2357: The Eiffel Tower To Be Taken Down In 20 Years (/travel/the-eiffel-tower-to-be-taken-down-in-20-years.
24 points earned within 36 months results in a 12-month suspension.
24 points in 36 months?
25 billion in economic benefit to Central Indiana in 10 years and create some 4,200 new permanent jobs, as well as 4,900 construction jobs during the life of the projects.
25% of the NASA workforce will be eligible to retire within the next five years, though of course not all will do so.
26 Frame every so-called disaster with these words ‘In five years, will this matter?
272, with 10 homers and 41 RBIs in four months at Single-A Kinston in 106 games.
281 of the National Executive Council dated November 24, 1972 and wish to continue operating the businesses shall notify the Director-General in order to obtain a certificate in accordance with the rules and procedures described in Section 11 within one year of the date on which this Act comes into force.
3 For the time will come when men will not put up with sound doctrine.
3 batting titles in 5 years – AS A CATCHER?
3 million in the next 25 years and accounts for approximately 80 percent of the state’s growth.
3 million people and will continue to aid hundreds of thousands more in the months ahead.
3 million studying pancreatic cancer, which kills nearly as many patients as breast cancer, usually within a year of diagnosis.
3 percent in the three months through June, Statistics New Zealand said today, compared with economists’ expectations for a 0.
3 points, but he won the leagueâ€™s MVP award for the first time in his career and helped the Lakers reach the NBA Finals for the first time in four years.
3% of DeVry graduates were employed in their field within 6 months of graduation*.
3' tall x 3' wide in 10 years.
3' tall x 4' wide in 10 years.
3) Postpartum psychosis-It happens to new mother within three months after giving birth.
30 Dates in 4 Months!
30 Dates in 4 months!
30% Targeted Traffic Increase Within 3 Months, Guaranteed!
30, 2009 Stanislaus County ponders solar farm Part of land could stay ag; lease income could grow Someday, someone could harvest sunshine as well as almonds near the Fink Road Landfill in west Stanislaus County.
31 March 2008 - ABORIGINAL legal aid services are preparing to cut services after the Federal Government reneged on an election promise to increase their funding for the first time in 12 years.
34 in 10 Months From Just One Site!
35 Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: and verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.
35 in six months and $1.
37 How to Start a Backyard Flower Nursery in a Month (/index.
37 percent expect to see their personal finances improve in the next six months, versus less than half (46 percent) who expect to hold onto what they currently have and 16 percent who expect to lose money.
379 pages; spine creasing, edge wear; Fans of this series will love getting reacquainted with the Fortune family, as Chase, Ryder and Hunter Fortune strive to fulfill the family traditions of wealth, power, and everlasting love in one year!
38 in a year.
3G to reach 40% of Saudis in four years time - Reportlinker (/3g-to-reach-40-of-saudis-in-four-years-time-reportlinker.
4 (HealthDay News) -- Prostate cancer patients whose prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels rise within 18 months after radiotherapy have an increased risk of death, say U.
4 billion market within four years.
4 lbs in 3 months compared to a weight gain of 2.
4 million passengers in 1998 - having doubled its total in the six years from 1992.
4 million year old fragments that disintegrate in 10 years because some third party, who provided no support in the recovery, reconstruction, and research process, wanted to see the fossil sooner.
4 percent year-over-year health spending growth in 2008 is the slowest rate of growth in 48 years, health spending still significantly outpaced growth in the overall economy, which grew by 2.
4% and sales for the first seven months of the year ahead 6.
4' tall x 4' wide in 10 years.
42-13:35 Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: and verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.
42-13:7 Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?
43-16:2 They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the time cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service.
45,000kms in 2 years.
45s, winning the 1959 American League MVP award while leading Chicago to its first pennant in 40 years.
4:23 But a time is coming – and now is here – when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for the Father seeks such people to be his worshipers.
4If he sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times comes back to you and says, ‘I repent,’ forgive him.
4m can be raised in the next five years experts say she will have to be dismantled, or even carefully sunk, to save her from destruction.
4m from Hibs, has hardly kicked a ball for us in the three years he’s been at Celtic and is now wanted by Italian giants Juventus and Inter Milan.
5 Billion in 7 years, placing over 450 Limited Partners.
5 billion) in the next 5 years, so it is natural a big player like Docomo will want be in the race,” said mobile industry consultant Mr.
5 grams per day) has restored taurine levels to normal and corrected the problem of blood viscosity within three months.
5 hours of approved real estate continuing education within their two year license term, prior to renewal.
5 miles per gallon, which will itself significantly reduce greenhouse gases  in the future.
5 million and is scheduled to be completed in nine months.
5 million and will pay inflationary costs in the future.
5 million in revenue in 2006, but within a year of taking control, Pocklington set the wheels in motion to place it into Chapter 7 of the U.
5 percent growth in the third quarter is the largest three-month gain we have seen in two years.
5 percent in one year.
5 tons per engine, you can imagine it will be much easier for us to lift them up and out in the future, however I’m not expecting to do so in my time.
5% in 22 years?
5% in the 12 months ending Sept.
5% return in about 2 months.
5' tall x 3' wide in 10 years.
5' wide in 10 years.
5,000 per month, what was the percentage increase in the salary bill for the company in the two years?
500 is not many but what if I told you that within 6 months you could an email list built with 500-1000 members on it?
509) would require the screening of all cargo on passenger airplanes within three years.
535), 5 years In five years as Georgia Tech&#39;s head coach,.
6 32-bit fatigued muscles that recover rapidly are insight electronics inc postitive nitrogen tv series budgets the white rabbite nebraska dot registration halloween costume ideas for dumb black girls tourin complete instructions richard n cox seminole c ounty tax appraisers office u s parcel tracking johns hopkins hospital bariatric surgeon portable power needs review johnny rocketsw oks a lar z ml sorular wife video post dlink canda research triangle apartment association small crankshaft end play wlkm franklin va zip code search reverse hummer video bypass puppies same parents different litter cacci ricci disease buy used laptop az military recreational facilities aouthern maryland remax in clear lake tx chipmunks get high music video someday im gonna wake-up from play all avi files on mac the shade bar new mexico blockparty music ultimate staffing brea jobs in stewartville mn drinking alcohol after giving blood woodward zebra original mccoy clown cookie jar bunnies by the bay 2002 environmental merit badge wii red steel happy small business grants for construction companies worplace politics quartz halogen heat lamps make a bong with a apple segment fix status devon guite sexy massage fuengirola lyrics to my old friend westgate centre st neots tatoo shops in new jersey video express xl newest styles of glasses sdw11b linux no fax credit check payday loan rebuilding after a disaster outdoor mechanical timer china when one dog dies leaving another 9-2350-261-10 in arabic salt bay cafe damariscotta maine first line when the light goes sharlow pronounced cigarettes image denyhosts mailstats burberry white yaoi lemon free reparacion ray ban colombia hasport hebrew spanish working mentality tommlee pamela architectural drafting job description investor's key to homes for rent software thermoserv mug topless puerto rico vacations in my arms h i m filetype php lucien mathematical solids you are my cupycake song lyrics ipods through the ages 48108 oil filter for sale leyes sobre seguridad en venezuela shaving video clips 5 seasons alpharetta petite nymphal popular mechanics m109r what are pinking shears paul trelstad difference between sweetpotatoes and yams what is planet blue store paul focht horseshoe carasel mall syracuse ny legal administrator jobs phoenix az droby pronounced famous new orleans blues songs jean marie davis election results 2007 removing mcafee virus scan home edition computer car parts bradenton 25 mega watt power plant pictures hospital celebration pictures 2008 idaho state track and field traditions tracker muzzleloader tomahawk paper co wisconsin used enclosed hauling trailors wwoec pb pierre lajeune 1595 good charlotte free online music blind equalization honey bee golf used plus sizes lovefool natalie brown dominatrix outfits oregon dental services ods kinds of laptops revenge pussy mp art henry county ky courthouse twelve-month blank calendar advice mortgage refinancing buy 1916 convention tickets baby cribs sales wide range achievement iii loreal visible results eye cream for back pain relief nhs health patients lothian hospital brownwood county texas hw400 maxibend blair window cleaning ohio baby ashanti yrics rentals miami film dermatoloy ups driver dies shinkwang pronounced black history quilt by degree distance learning master what do Asserflis jerome brommer tom waits earth died vincenzo landriscina skinny calf and boot towns in mounmouth county nj ipod nano radio receiver military asv tacom upgrade ballast housing manufactures custom print cd case america servicing company mortgages celebrity news angelina brad latest plowa filetype php germicide cliff sijohn convicted eric lin husband crossdresser stories stratics central archived news for september nontheraputic research in salvia for sale online gita ramlogan shannon university of oklahoma how to cheat at poker fsms demand download spiegel fabrics audels wiring fiagrams crossdresser gang bang ethyl structure egiggle the granny pron total extreme karate 2007 review world's ugliest coconuts hair on chest university of life cheap air flights airport code asahikawa arkansas state single women craigs list consile wedge wireline 2960s dumb black girls dvorak keyboard windows pom acronym definition defense suppliers of hair net dispensers king of the road 5th wheelers nws rader long range loop miami what country has the largest gdp free class in repiar mild and natural colon cleansers i like fucking my mother balancing periodic table equations ludicrous diet pill offers sask landlord tenant assoc busqueda empleadas domesticas colombia montsanto bicylce frames airline audio connections youngstown bolt repesha devon purvis track 245.
6 guys from the C&MA Western Canadian District went to Exponential '10 Conference and wrote a commitment down on a napkin that involved laboring toward the establishment of a number of Alberta Apostolic Hubs in the next 30 months, for the multiplication of the church and the explosive movement of the gospel through Alberta.
6 lakh with a 6 per cent interest to be paid within three months.
6 per cent in one year, with the number of cases reported rising from 26,127 in 2005 to 27,070 in 2006.
6 percent rise last November, which had been the biggest one-month jump in 33 years.
6 pounds of bodyfat in three months compared to 6.
6 “The Politics of Money,”  saying the Dow had fallen below 10,000 for the first time in 10 years, even though it had fallen as low 7,181 in 2002.
6% will consider it in the future.
60-4:17 For the time is come that judgment must begin at the house of God: and if it first begin at us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God?
66% in 2000 year.
665: What Will People Consider Artifacts in 100 years?
7 million people—approximately 10 percent of the total population—within three months from September.
7 percent, the biggest decline in nearly three years.
7 percent, the biggest year-over-year increase in nearly two years.
7% in 2007, in only 4 years.
7' tall x 3' wide in 10 years.
7' tall x 4' wide in 10 years.
7) ] A significant rate of recurrence among these benign tumors has been reported by several groups, ranging from 10% to 21%, with most relapses occurring within 3 years of resection.
72 per litre in Canada, within the next 12 months?
75% is repayable in 96 monthly payments of $1,207.
78 How to Start a Backyard Herb Garden in a Month (/index.
8 MT of cement a year, and has a target to raise the capacity to 8 MT in 5 years.
8 billion) in six years and is seeking a partner in bidding to build new railway networks in the U.
8 comes around in a few months), you should start checking your language translation right now.
8 lbs in a month is not a big deal.
8 million hectares of land would be developed within the next five years.
8 per cent for this year, the first growth year in three years after the recession cut fuel use.
8 pounds in three months on a low-carbohydrate diet compared to 10.
8 pounds of fat in one year if they did HIIT five days a week instead of conventional training.
8% from July and the highest level in two months.
8% in the number of air passengers' bags mishandled last year, resulting in savings of $460 million for the world's airlines in a year when their overall losses reached $9.
8%), and for the first time in 37 months, posted national year-over-year gains of 2.
8' tall x 3' wide in 10 years.
8' tall x 6' wide in 10 years.
8(for the discs, and in case my plans for a motor change in the future).
83 in 7 months And it’s just from ONE clickbank product… The next more amazing thing is – these earnings were generated from *1* keyword in Adwords, without using emails or JVs!
83, the highest level in 14 years.
850 motion within two years after the judgment and sentence become final.
9 billion to the debt piling on future generations, to be one of the most sinister, selfish and short-sighted solutions I have seen in my two years and 10 months in Washington.
9 million over four years, created record amounts of debt that is leaving our state with an unprecedented $1 billion dollar deficit for the upcoming year.
9 million tons of poultry meat in a year.
9% of the population increase in the 27 years'.
9% overall uptime in a 12 month period.
92, in a month or two, call back if not received by then.
93 - again a 14 month high.
96 Eric Weitz - July 14 2008 @ 6:25 pm Hey Tony, I'm leaving for the Middle East in a month.
99% is repayable in 144 monthly payments of $875.
D I might even order again in the future.
twisted: I work out 3 hours a day bud, do the math, I eat healthy do the math, Try not to do so much assuming in the future.
don’t worry, your hard work will be paid off someday.
> 4 cm), the guidelines suggest needle aspiration with repeat imaging within six months.
>> February 1, 2010  - Avatar Overtakes Titanic, Ferraro VIP Grand Opening, Possible Terror Attack Within 12 Months, Belize, The Grandfather Maximon, Searching for ETs on Earth, Mel Gibson’s Edge of Darkness, and more.
n7ice (/n7ice) congrats on the plates, now you area "Mobile Ham Operator" LOL i dont have car but someday (.
saving4someday send me details of experience we_can_help@comcast.
A 2007 assessment by the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP) predicts that orangutans will be virtually eliminated in the wild within two decades if current deforestation trends continue.
A 2007 assessment by the United Nations Environment Program predicts that orangutans will be virtually eliminated from the wild within two decades if current trends continue.
A BBC World Service poll asked citizens of 27 countries (see below for list of countries) from around the world, “In the future, when historians think about the year 2005, what event of global significance do you think will be seen as most important?
A Busy Year Ahead on the Code and Regulatory Front (upload/Code_Arena_January_2006.
A Cape Coral aluminum company was burglarized for the second time in two months and the owner reported more than $2,000 in items stolen this tim.
A Georgia-based company could invest $250 million in a solar cell making plant and create up to 500 jobs within five years in Thomas Township.
A Goldman Sachs analyst upgraded his view of real estate investment trusts Thursday, predicting a bottom in industry fundamentals in the next year to 18 months.
A JR Rail Pass is non transferable, and it must be validated within three months of purchase at one of the travel centers.
A Lot can Change in the Housing Market in Two Years!
A New Customer is defined as someone who has never purchased at the Birdsafe Store, or has not placed an order in 3 years or longer, AND is shipping or billingto new address (this eliminates using someone else's name in the same house to qualify).
A New York City firefighter is among three city workers being charged with operating an illegal sports-betting ring that made $178 million in three years.
A World Cruise: Maybe someday, when I win the lottery or become independently wealthy, I’ll be able to book a world cruise.
A belief in the future usually produces a fascination with history and one's place in it.
A builder estimated that more than 50 projects could add 1,20,000 flats in the next five years.
A business that ignores online advertising entirely may have a tough time with those new hi-tech savvy customers in the future.
A car is such a fleeting thing, gone within a few years.
A change in the basic 3D Zelda battle system would be very interesting, and a long time coming.
A cheerful table cover is just the thing for sunny picnics during the warm months ahead.
A child that is taught to respect guns and the potential hazards that go along with them will probably be less likely to abuse them in the future.
A children's home which wants to remain open permanently has been the source of 45 crimes and 34 arrests in three years, a police report has revealed.
A coaching contract is usually in six monthly sessions.
A company called Sharing Health is coming out with a Beck treatment video soon, and within a few months an easy to read booklet regarding the Beck protocol.
A condition for which a doctor gave you medical advice, recommended treatment, or provided treatment within six months before the effective date of your insurance plan.
A continuing evolution of toxicological methodologies and regulatory strategies will be necessary to ensure that the present level of safety of biotechnology-derived foods is maintained in the future.
A copyright owner can only sue for infringement on a work whose copyright was registered with the Copyright Office, and can get statutory damages and attorney's fees only if the copyright registration was filed before infringement or within three months of first publication.
A couple species were common in geographic areas where they were listed as rare, undoubtedly the result of range expansions in the 7 years since the 2003 publication date (in fairness, these species were listed in the book as expanding their range).
A cure for long term paralysis is still some years in the future, but clinical trials are taking place with Olfactory Ensheathing Glial (OEG) cells (olfactoryensheathingcells.
A cynic is not merely one who reads bitter lessons from the past, he is one who is prematurely disappointed in the future.
A decision was made to pull it and then repost it in the future if necessary.
A diagnosis of DCIS does place women at a higher risk of developing invasive breast cancer in the future.
A dream is your creative vision for your life in the future.
A fact which can be brutally used in the future to trap him in an even worse position, as no one wishes to hire someone who steals IP.
A federal judge says he will rule on state officialsâ€™ challenge to the new health care law within a month.
A few changes in your lifestyle now are likely to help you control your blood pressure in the future.
A few might even become my roommates sometime in the future as I get ready to venture out on my own once I start making some more money.
A few people have told me that side-valve Reliant engines like blowing head gaskets and one chap told me he changed it seven times in a year when he used to have one.
A foreign incorporated company must file each year, within one month of its Annual General Meeting, a copy of the Annual Return and, within two months of its Annual General Meeting, a copy of the balance sheet of the head office, a duly audited statement of assets used in and liabilities arising out of its operations in Malaysia, and a duly audited profit and loss account.
A group of smaller successful social game developer/publishers talk about how they compete effectively against the big guys and get quietly rich – and whether doing so will be possible in the future.
A high-level executive of General Electric Co (GE) said on Thursday that the China market will outstrip the United States in the years ahead, and the company will expand its business in China through partnerships with State-owned enterprises.
A huge percentage of what has left the country is needed now, and will be needed even more in the future once Chavez is history.
A key feature of Denver's program is that it aims to mainstream kids in three years, "which is considerably shorter than what the traditional bilingual program had done historically," Berman said.
A little about me – I’ve lived in Colorado 11 years and work at Ball Aerospace in Boulder.
A little mill will fit where you want it to and it will do the small stuff you have NOW, but what if you start getting bigger stuff in the future?
A lot can happen in a hundred years, but all of the above happens just in this first issue!
A lot can happen in two months.
A lot has changed in the ten years hence.
A lot has happened in the five years since then: The Clinton Presidential Library was built and opened; the Big Dam Bridge for bikers and walkers was built upstream at Murray Lock and Dam; and work was begun last week on converting another, nearby railroad bridge to a pedestrian span.
A majority of Chileans also believe they have been negatively affected both by the economic downturn and the rising cost of food, however, a modest number believe their economic situation will improve within the next year.
A message statement worded as “I will become more confident” implies that the goal will only be achieved at some point in the future.
A missionary friend who had experienced a similar situation comforted me and then offered these words: “In the future, Christ can use your emotional wounds to help heal others.
A more thoughtful and helpful change would have been to draw a FIRM LINE under the 300 ppm standard, eliminating the 100 ppm standard altogether as well as the rule ratcheting down the lead standard in the future (forgot about that one, right?
A narrower travel area for cars will slow traffic, and we don't foreclose the option to make the street two-way in the future.
A net 20 percent of respondents said access to credit worsened in the three months through May, compared with a net 36 percent in the period through March, Britain’s biggest business lobby said in an e-mailed statement today.
A new Food Safety Act that parliament enacted four years ago will be implemented within three months after procedural issues are resolved, the Rajya Sabha was informed Tuesday.
A new federal task force will also propose a plan “to overcome the barriers to the widespread, cost-effective deployment of CCS within 10 years, with a goal of bringing 5 to 10 commercial demonstration projects online by 2016,” the White House said.
A new report on the state of the global population by the US census bureau has revealed that the number of over 65's is set to outnumber children under 5 for the first time within the next ten years.
A new research study by the Researchers at the Johns Hopkins Children’s Center provides hope that there may someday be a way to control or reduce symptoms from milk and other food related allergies.
A new skin is in development and will be deployed in 3 months, but content and back end design can be modified to improve SEO.
A number of other persons who could not attend today plan to attend in the future.
A panel of ten genes appeared to provide prognostic information, as it predicted a subset of patients that died of their disease within six months, regardless of their tumor burden.
A part-time project recorded over three years by musicians who passionately care about the fact that they're having a great time in the process, The Pawn Shop Years comes, conquers, and destroys with far more devastating effect than many a self-important hard rock band purporting to do this for a living.
A practical guide to using gold to excel in today's overextended financial worldWith American consumer debt doubling in seven years and the federal debt continuing to surge, a potential dollar crash is now talked about openly in financial circles.
A project called Lifestyle Habitat is a marvel; 60 percent of its inventory was sold within four months of launch.
A range of experts from ophthalmologists to electronic engineers to biomaterials researchers will exchange scientific information and advances at the congress, opening up possibilities for collaboration on new technology that may someday help blind people see.
A rare reptile with lineage dating back to the dinosaur age has been found nesting on the New Zealand mainland for the first time in about 200 years, officials said Friday.
A recent BBC Newsnight poll  showed that nearly three-quarters of people believe retirement as we currently understand it will not be possible in the future.
A report released by the House Government Reform Committee in February 2007, shows that in the 13 months that Bremer ruled, from May 2003 to June 2004, the Federal Reserve Bank in New York shipped nearly $12 billion in a cash to Iraq.
A return to Austin and Kentucky is next -- first time in 18 months -- so, no travelogues for quite a while, as I'll be seeing you all and you will be experiencing this craziness with me.
A secured loan now could harm your remortgage prospects in the future.
A settlor as stated in section (1) who first became an Israeli resident or became a veteran returning resident as stated in paragraph 14(A), will be obligated to notify as stated in that section at the times established therein, if at the time that he became Israeli resident the trustee of a trust also has assets in Israel or income from assets in Israel; and though as regards the details of the assets and the income as stated in sub paragraph (B)(2),the settlor will only provide details of the assets in Israel and the income originating from assets in Israel that the settlor transferred to the trustee in the five years prior to the tax year during which the settlor became Israeli resident.
A short term loan is a loan that is to be payed back within one year.
A single injec-tion within one month of vaccination raised the risk of polio eight times, two to nine injections raised the risk 27-fold, and 10 or more injections raised the risk 182 times.
A six month course of optimally-titrated GH replacement is usually needed before the benefits can be assessed clearly, although many patients show a substantial improvement in QoL within three months.
A slightly higher interest rate may be required in some cases, but you can make sure you have the right to refinance in the future at a more favorable rate.
A small group put the whole thing together in three months.
A special access limitation has been set to preserve data confidentiality: only that server that put the data in the cookies can read them in the future.
A staff member told me this is the most to retire in one month since January of 2000, when 135 retired (recall that in January 2000, mandatory retirement at age 63 was reinstated).
A staff member, calling someone he hasn’t seen in 5 years, has a very good chance of receiving a pledge or a gift over the phone.
A statement from Xin himself on the forum would be very helpful to those who have paid for but not received their products and to those who need repair service now or in the future.
A statement of the obvious but with 'over-65's' set to outnumber children in the UK for the first time in the next 10 years, there are consequences to our increasingly ageing population.
A strong collection team will strengthen current accounts receivables and give a business tools to stay profitable in the future through a good and bad economic times.
A study by the International Commission on Peace and Food showed that a strategy designed to improve nutritional levels in India by increasing the productivity and incomes of farming families could generate downstream multiplier effect capable of creating 100 million new jobs within a ten year period.
A substantial amount of pipeline capacity additions over the next three years will come from the intense development activity in northeast Texas producing areas, such as the Barnett Shale, and from the Rockies, the EIA reported.
A time comes in your life when you finally get it… when, in the midst of all your fears and insanity, you stop dead in your tracks and somewhere the voice inside your head cries out – ENOUGH!
A time is coming when anyone who kills you will think he is offering a service to God" (John 16:2).
A time is coming when they shall acknowledge the Lord as their Ruler.
A true leader encourages his team to take on new responsibilities and to grow and learn because that investment in the personal growth of their team will pay off substantially in the future.
A typical Tune In and Tune Up event removes approximately 3,000 tons of carbon monoxide, 300 tons of hydrocarbons and 150 tons of oxides of nitrogen from the air in one year.
A typical spot contract is defined as a book transfer of 100,000 pounds of U3O8, for delivery within the next six months.
A unique predictive scoring model has been developed in conjunction with Scorex (UK) Ltd aimed at enabling you to detect those companies at risk of corporate failure within the next 12 months.
A waiver of any provision hereunder shall not operate as a waiver of any other provision, or a continuing waiver of the same provision in the future.
A well known technical analyst has written, "If the market has shown respect in the past to a Fibonacci grid drawn on the chart, the chances are much higher that it will also respect those levels in the future market action.
A wonderful read that I will no doubt enjoy again in the future.
A writ was further issued directing the Government of NCT of Delhi to appoint Ashwani to one of the vacant posts reserved under the Act according to his qualifications within one month.
A year they'll be able to look back on someday as one of their best.
A young man joins the military and learns the skills that he will need in the months ahead.
A young woman attacked by soldiers in eastern Congo is left with a fistula--a condition that renders her incontinent and threatens her ability to give birth in the future.
AC went out within 2 years3.
AD 1095 – AD 1291, the Western European feudal lords, big merchants and the Roman Catholic Church “under the guidance of God,” banner from the “infidels” hand back “the Holy Land” of Jerusalem under the banner of the eastern Mediterranean countries have been sustained in recent 200 years of aggressive expedition.
ADDIS ABABA, (Xinhua) -- Ethiopia’s Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development announced on Sunday that the country would increase its agricultural production to 395 million quintals from 180 quintals now within the next five years.
AFF encourages the long-term sustainability of America's forests, restores wildlife habitat and develops quality environmental education programs, to assure that Americans today, and in the future, enjoy healthy, growing forests.
AFP - MUMBAI (AFP) - India's central bank raised its main interest rates more than expected on Thursday, springing the fifth hike in six months to tame inflation in Asia's third-biggest economy.
AH&LA urged the Department to create an exemption for existing hotel guest rooms in the future alterations of these elements.
AMITE---Alderman Walter Daniels says plans to improve Amite's town water system will drastically increase monthly utility bills in the future, a.
APM Terminals to reduce CO2 emissions by 15% per TEU in three years(20-10-2009)Learn More (News_Details.
ATHENS, Greece: Human rights activists gathered in Athens on Thursday to launch a global "human rights torch relay" to highlight allegedly widespread human rights abuses in China, one year ahead of the Beijing Olympics.
AURORAS Auroras is an online multiplayer strategy game that is based in the future space!
Abbott Northwestern Center for Outpatient Care, Edina, MN The Phase I portion of this project is a 2-story medical office facility, however the structure needed to be designed for an additional 6 stories to be added in the future.
Abdul Hamid Juma, Chairman, Dubai International Film Festival, said: "We are proud of our association with Etisalat and look forward to take our relationship with them to higher levels in the years ahead.
Abnormal cervical cells are common and they often return to normal on their own in a few months.
Abortion makes me sick and I think all these women and doctors and nurses are going to pay someday for what they've done!
About 20,000MW need to be added in 10 years (showthread.
About 25 percent of the farms in the Louisiana/Mississippi ‘New Orleans Milkshed’ went out of business within 16 months.
About 30 percent of Southern California’s total supplies in a year moves across the Delta to state-operated pumps and aqueduct.
About half the neighbors in Lewis’ study had contracted viral or fungal infections within a month of when sludge was spread, and similar symptoms continually ravaged people at each site.
About the author:Geoffrey Salvatore Ciani shall someday name his first-born son “Santino” because he fancies the name “Santino Ciani”.
About the fireâ€¦ This is our 2nd fire in 4 months.
About the whole Coast from Long Island to Cape Sable, and thence East as far as Cape La Have, during all the Summer Season is a good Cod Fishery, most of the Fishing Vessels from New England, not less than Two Hundred Sail, catch their Summer Fairs , about these Coasts; and there is but little doubt, as the Harbours about this Coast are much more handy and convenient for the Fishery, that that Branch of Business will be transferred from New England to this Coast in a few years.
About titular character Adam (Dancy), writer-director Max Mayer’s first film in ten years explores his day to day life living with the socially restrictive Asperger’s syndrome.
Above Grounds may revise these Terms and Conditions in the future, and you will be able to find the most current version of this agreement on our website in these Terms of Service.
Above all, he added, they take great care never to overstretch themselves financially, always making allowance for interest rate rises within the next decade, even if these seem unlikely at present.
Above two Hundred Schooners made their Fish, and above Twenty Topsail Vessels were loaded here with Fish for Spain and Portugal, and were the like Encouragement given for the protection of Fishermen, there's not the least doubt but it would in a year or two be restored to as much as formerly, application having been made from New England, for that and would be a great means of inducing and promoting a Settlement on the main Land.
AbsolutData has doubled the employee strength within a year.
Abstract thinking in the future will be common place.
Accepting, you should be prepared for the tough red ochre stains that will remind you long in the future of your generosity.
According to Amer Ezzat Salama, minister of higher education and scientific research and president of SCU, the strategy includes plans to bring existing universities into the Information Age, and build 11 new, science-focused universities within three years.
According to Jim Hoft at GatewayPundit  , a majority of Americans will lose their company sponsored health plans within 3 years.
According to Khalil Shikaki, the Palestinian pollster who headed the aforementioned poll, never in the 15 years that the poll has been conducted has a majority of Palestinians favored rocket assaults on Israel or an end to negotiations.
According to PCERF, the real estate demand in the next five years is expected to be more than 2000 million sq.
According to RealtyTrac Inc, a foreclosure listing service, nearly 323,000 homeowners received some form of foreclosure related notice in May; this reflects a 3% decline in a monthly comparison.
According to William Wilkins Glenn, Johnson told a group of Radical Republican Congressmen: "The South has done more in fourteen months than I expected to see accomplished in several years.
According to a 1996 Starbucks Case Profile, the price of the coffee bean could rise in the future due to lower supply, and heightened demand.
According to a report by the government auditors, two in three children who went to juvenile detention centres re-offended within six months after their release.
According to a sheaf of statistics provided to CNY by Marty Rogers, one of the residents who helped lead the fight to reopen the firehouse, a total of 14 people, including 10 who were teens or younger, died in fires in the house's response zone in the 14 months it was closed.
According to general manager Liu Yingqi TenPay introduced mobile payment application will be rolled out in many areas of daily life, not only mobile phone users to check their account balance, to account management, payment can shop anytime, anywhere, to buy game cards, prepaid cell phone bill, they will in the future to support water, coal, telecommunications and other public utilities fees.
According to him, off-planet clues, like the increase in solar activity, also lend credence to a polar shift scenario occurring in the future.
According to recent research, upwards of 25% of new leaders appointed from within fail (are ejected or sidelined) within 18 months; the figure is closer to 40% for new leaders .
According to the National Cancer Institute, the expected mortality rate for Advanced Prostate Cancer is over 50% in 36 months from diagnosis.
According to the School of Economics and Development Policy Research Unit at the University of Cape Town, job losses in South Africa had more than doubled in the 12 months from January 2008 to January 2009 with figures jumping 36 percent compared to 14 percent over the previous year because of recession.
According to the United States Census Bureau, the current divorce rate in the United States is currently around 30 to 40 percent; this means that roughly one-third of all marriages end in divorce within ten years.
According to the actor, filming begins in 2010 and the movie will be finished within two years.
According to the author of the marriage guide "For Better", 23% of college graduates who married in the 1970's divorced within 10 years.
According to the band, the song will be the first of several to be released in the next few months.
According to the weather reporters, the temperatures over the last two and a half weeks, up to and including today, have been lower than any two and a half week period in seven years.
According to their latest paper published in Nature, the biomass of large predators (animals that kill and eat other animals) inanes fishery is reduced on average by 80% within 15 years of the start of exploitation.
Acquiring users in markets that are currently in their growth stages will lead to a loyal user base that will pay dividends for Internet companies in the future," concluded Gotla.
Actor Karl Urban talks to Nick Grant about working on Out Of The Blue, his first New Zealand film in five years, and the “immense pressure” he felt to do justice to the man he is playing.
Actually however some of the necessary steps in your current job search will help you in the future.
Adam Sharp's blog It sometimes feels like the only email you`re getting is junk email trying to sell you stuff you`d never buy in a million years.
Adam Wainwright is the first Cardinals pitcher with consecutive seasons of 18 wins or more in 25 years.
Adams said the addition of SmartBoards and new drawing tables are in the future plans.
Add this page to your bookmarks to return to it in the future.
Addison pa I am looking for someone to talk to maybe meet someday maybe more.
Additional focus areas for the upcoming year will be on communications and outreach, with particular efforts to take advantage of social media tools such as Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.
Additionally, 23% of women die within one year of a heart attack, while two-thirds of women who have a heart attack fail to make a full recovery.
Additionally, CentralMediaMKT may use other new and evolving sources of information in the future (together, "Technology Information").
Additionally, it projects that detailed design will be completed within 18 months after the license is awarded to the winning consortium.
Additionally, the Company may use other new and evolving sources of information in the future (together, "Technology Information").
Additonally, I can see that it will grow with our son (and his younger brother in a year or two) and therefore I am very happy with the purchase.
Adjusting the taste buds to a low-fat diet can take 4-6 weeks so just because you don't like something the first time you try it, doesn't absolutely mean you won't like it in a month or so.
Advance notification to plan participants is required if, as a result of the amendment, the rate that plan participants may earn benefits in the future is significantly reduced.
Advent is that season in which we prepare for Christ’s coming in the past (in Bethlehem), His coming in the future (on the clouds of heaven to judge the living and the dead) and His coming in the present (in so many ways, but especially in the Eucharist).
Afghan President Hamid Karzai has issued a decree ordering all private security firms in Afghanistan to disband within four months.
Afraid to take my mind of off praying for him or thinking of the ways I can be a help now and in the future.
African delegates will make a briefing on Africa’s agricultural financing and investment, policies, as well as the development trend in the future.
After 8 hrs of Lou's Bodywork, I was 2-3 months ahead of the Runner's Magazine Program Achievement Schedule, I was passing people at the end of a Marathon, going up hill, I had no change in gait from it, I could play Golf 6 hrs later on the same day, & I felt totally recovered in just 2 days.
After Sturgis we drove into Rapid City to sewing and fabric stores which were the nicest we have seen in several years of visting everyone we come accross in our travels.
After a court initially determines the legal custody arrangement for a child it is difficult to change that decision within two years of the court making this decision.
After all if you’re going to be sending money to a company in order to start trading, do you really want to be sending it to an offshore company based in some remote part of the world, and can you be sure that you’ll be able to successfully withdraw money when the time comes?
After all, how do you start a business when you don’t where you’re going to live in 6 months?
After all, pain is temporary; if I heed their orders and become successful in the future, that pride lasts forever.
After all, the town is hoping to move the town garage away from that area, and the high school is sure to undergo some comprehensive changes in the next few years.
After complaints about American dominance of the internet  and growing disquiet in some parts of the world, Washington has said it will relinquish some control over the way the network is run and allow foreign governments more of a say in the future of the system.
After finding out about guy number 6, I kicked her out and she got engaged with one of the guys within two months.
After his top scoring season in five years in the NHL.
After looking over a number of cases personally, I was encouraged to find several who said they would like to try competitive exhibiting in the future.
After losing four straight court decisions in two years, TrialGraphix has given up its federal court battle to stop GW from using the generic, descriptive phrase "trial graphics.
After planning and executing this national event in only three months, the newly incorporated Culture of Life Youth Coalition (CLYC) is hoping for a much larger turnout in 2007, according to Executive Director Jonathan Tonkowich.
After rolex watches  populous elderliness of unremitting Fake Watch Shop  dig into further development, Happy Sport Chopard Replica Watches  Franck Muller train mill replica Calatrava Patek Philippe  handle and intentional watchmakers, Cartier Santos Demoiselle 18kt Yellow Gold and Steel Ladies Watch W25066Z6 sale  the unparalleled deeper homemade rolex watches  utensil absolutely sweep chronometer replica Don Giovanni Raymond Weil  someday appears juice manifestation Tag Heuer Formula One Maria Sharapova Diamond Pink Ladies Watch WAC1216.
After she graduated, she went to work for Expressly Portraits / Picture People, a photography studio, and became an Assistant Manager within 6 months.
After the 9/11 attacks, he offered support to President Bush, but Gore grew uneasy as Bush promulgated a global strategy of preemptive war, reserving the right to attack any country that might somehow threaten the United States sometime in the future.
After the New YorkYankees’dominance of the 1996-2000 period (with4 World Series Titles and 4 AL Pennants in 5 years), the crowds swelled.
After the cork tree has reached maturity, cork is harvested from the lower two thirds of the tree in 9 year cycles.
After the coup in Indonesia, has been successfully suharto with mandatory method, but also promote industrial modernization in 20 years in the global growth, many countries have to invest in Indonesia.
After the elections of a new Vaad Hakohol, we will have the chance to fix this problem when we go to vote for a third Rav in 3 months from now.
After the years it took to get into the VA system, sometimes a VA doctor would give me a few days worth of codeine, tell me to come back in three months and walk out of the exam room and disappear, or an ER doc would do the same when I came in, desperate, having been awake and hurting for days, and testily ask why did I have to come in right now – what made it so much worse at this particular moment?
After two dead pumps in five years, much online research, and consulting with a senior technician at the company that services my pool cover, I have come to the conclusion that the Little Giant pumps are not going to last a long time if you leave them out in the brutal Michigan cold.
After winning 63% of his bets in three years, he quit school to become a tout.
After years of over promising and under delivering, the solar Industry is finally starting to show some interesting developments which have the potential to make solar power as cheap as fossil fuel on a cost-per-watt basis within five years.
After years of over promising and under delivering, the solar industry is finally starting to show some interesting developments that have the potential to make solar power as cheap as fossil fuel on a cost-per-watt basis within five years.
Afterward, perhaps in three years, he hopes to retire from Foshay, then devote himself to teaching educators and administrators how to improve children's learning experiences and run schools effectively.
Again I know the pictures aren’t gone forever, and will come out again in the future, but it was still tough to pack it all away.
Again, 3 or 4 (different) colleges will have these in any one year; in those colleges that have them, they occur in a cycle every 3 years or so (so that each student will get the chance to attend at least once during their University career).
Again, I don’t have any real world business experience (though I would like to, someday).
Again, I learn every time I come to the forum.
Again, thank you very much for all your time and trouble with me and you will be hearing from me in the future with more orders.
Against a team who hadn’t bought a player in 2 years?
Against all odds, Chenery -- with the help of veteran trainer Lucien Laurin -- manages to navigate the male-dominated business, ultimately fostering the first Triple Crown winner in 25 years and what may be the greatest racehorse of all time.
Against these advantages, you have to weigh the risk that an increase in interest rates would lead to higher monthly payments in the future.
Aghast, he called his father and reported he was also required to break all the school’s middle distance records in the next two years.
Ain't seen it in ten year, nor will again, never.
Al, I'm looking to do this modification in the next 12 months or so.
Alchemy is also planning in the future to work with ‘major oil’ offering them Alchemy’s fuel and fuel recycling systems to be used in their distribution network.
Alexander Kotelkin, Director General of the Rosvoorouzhenie State Corporation, repeatedly declared at the latest international arms exhibitions that due to a large volume of export deliveries of the Su-27s and their derivatives, Sukhoi will rank among the world's top three leading exporters of fighters in the next decade.
AlistairCockburn) pointed out (I think it was AC) it is the team that wins and not the coach, perhaps in the future we should have teams created in advance and compete together instead of specific coach.
Alitalia will concentrate on flights from Milan Linate in the future, its only remaining routes from Malpensa are to Cairo, Miami, Moscow Sheremetyevo, New York JFK, Rome Fiumicino and Tokyo Narita.
All 4 patients died from cardiovascular causes within 2 months of the discontinuation of CAPD.
All 40 Republican senators have endorsed my plan for building 100 new nuclear plants in the next 20 years.
All about her new film Hoot and what to expect in the future.
All advanced workshops will also still be offered, and new programs for advanced specialty certificateswill be added in the upcoming months.
All cadets, within 6 months following their eighteenth birthday, must undergo the same Cadet Protection Program Training (CPPT) that senior members must complete.
All cancellations within one month of check-in are subject to a 50% refund.
All four original Creed band members Scott Stapp, Mark Tremonti, Scott Philips and Brian Marshall will reunite this summer for a tour (the band's first in seven years) and new album.
All ice will probably be lost on the mountaintop within 15 years.
All in all it's a great product, and I will definitely buy more of it in the future.
All in all, Zhangjiajie lotus Airport has provided many conveniences for passengers to Zhangjiajie and will make more progress in the future.
All major upgrades to Analyse-it, released within 12 months of your purchase, are available to you free of charge.
All most everybody worries about what will happen in the future.
All of them had experienced a romantic breakup within 2 months of the study and all said they were still in love.
All of these cancers are rare enough that most pediatric hospitals might see fewer than two in a year.
All of these things are in the future, but we do need a way to get them to a position where the nature of the society that we have is at stake and that we have to struggle to get that.
All of this will have to come out sooner or later -- perhaps, after the Haiti operation goes irremediably sour and the time comes for the excuses and evasions to be trotted out, Somalia-style.
All references that might be made to an investment or portfolio's performance are based on historical data and one should not assume that this performance will continue in the future.
All statements which address operating performance, events or developments that are expected or anticipated to occur in the future, including statements expressing general optimism or pessimism about future operating results, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act.
All the Best in the Future.
All the amount deposited at the Deposit Office, if not claimed within five years, shall belong to the state.
All the best in the future!
All the patients of PD-Ca (n = 12) group died in 5 years.
All these elements are then parceled out over the following tracks, taking turns to dominate the cues, and sometimes coming together again in majestic shows of force--the music can sound absolutely humongous at times ("Submission," "Come and Get Them," "A God King Bleeds").
All these points were made within a month of the attacks.
All this makes an exponential increase in their ranks a distinct possibility in the years ahead.
Almost a million dollars, in one year!
Almost everybody in the energy world presumed that the natural gas era would soon give way to even cleaner sources of power generation-wind, solar, biofuels, hydrogen, perhaps someday solar panels on the moon.
Along with the consideration of the list of features the CMS currently has available, you should consider whether or not the CMS has the capability to add custom features for you should you need them in the future.
Already looking forward to more of the same in the future.
Also WordPress has moved on a lot in 3 years since it was written – that does invalidate many of the concepts and linking structures presented, but the methods to achieve them might differ significantly.
Also a commitment to quality cannot be sacrificed as Starbucks locations will likely double in the next five years.
Also after you do the 8 minute abs work out do the Stomach vacuum exercise this exercise is suppose to cause your stomach to lose 3 inches within a month.
Also as part of this release… a really REALLY long time coming is Volume 1 of Over Time.
Also meant to mention that often characters age when they cross, alot time they gain a year or two and they often jump to high school.
Also pencil in long runs or races within the next month or two so that you can plan your weekly schedule appropriately.
Also remarkable to me was Grant's Quaker Indian Peace Policy: on the eve of what could have become the complete genocide of the American Indian, Grant acted decisively to begin two decades of reform that for the first time promoted the welfare of Indians as individuals and broke ground for their eventual citizenship.
Also tell the seller, that if he does not have any that presently meet your criteria, to please inform you if he does in the future.
Also thanks to those who worked on Shibatora to start the ball rolling again, hopefully we’ll be seeing a lot more in the future.
Also, I look forward to reading your published work in the future.
Also, due to economic constraints within organizations, many times the problem is not how fast to drive the education and training, but how to even find available dollars and resources to get it to individuals that are destined to lead the organization now and in the future.
Also, he proposes gathering up all vulnerable nuclear material -- or โloose nukesโ -- within four years.
Also, in the future if something happens, speak up.
Also, list out any potential or customer targets you want to go after in the next few years.
Also, please be in our age range (within 10 years).
Also, the Challenger Super Sport Concept is equipped with a carbureted engine, and there has not been a non-fuel injected car sold by Dodge  in a few decades.
Also, the article states that stages and fighting arenas will be discussed in the future.
Also, their greatest values are those that can be most perfect ones to mold your children into great people in the future.
Although American women won the right to vote in 1920, broader economic and social change has been a longer time coming, and the pace of progress has often been uneven.
Although I haven’t owned a TV in 15 years, I did see that one small segment of my rant made it to TV.
Although I never give up hope that Sega will eventually revive this amazing rpg series, and no I don't mean the half-hearted Phantasy Star Online games, wow powerleveling  wow leveling  ArchLord gold  buy ArchLord gold  City of Heroes influence  coh influence  City of Villains infamy  COV infamy  I'll keep playing this outstanding adventure and loving ever minute of it until that time comes.
Although all of this news seemed to potentially derail his career and hopes for a someday run at the White House, never say never in this brave new political world.
Although cash may someday be obsolete, it’s still going strong as the No.
Although information about the incidence and spontaneous course of CIS in children is limited, CIS in one 10 year-old boy (not AIS but with bilateral cryptorchidism) was followed by invasive neoplasia 10 years later.
Although is can only depend by certain West analyst ridicule the swimming to cross the sea, the People’s Liberation Army recent years in this topic still progressed at the islands combined military operation obviously, will make every effort in the future war, through the electronic warfare, the missile attack, the air raid and so on many kinds of methods will open the channel for the Landing force.
Although no reported bidders have emerged since that time, we believe the company will likely be taken over in the future.
Although quite young still, I’m sure we will see a lot from her (in the future) as she is an artist in the making.
Although she’s sure bred to have a huge motor, she acts like she wants to be a kids horse someday!
Although soccer and the USL is far from the million dollar paydays we see in other sports we have to start being careful now to avoid this in the future.
Although sometimes controversial, they remain essential to a pilot's safety, and could perhaps someday save his life.
Although the "current trends" scenario of 2 W/m2 in 50 years is at the low end of the IPCC range, it is larger than the 1 W/m2 level that we suggested as our current best estimate for the level of DAI.
Although the Clinton administration served in a decade unscathed by large-scale war, but marked by an increase in rogue states’ audacity and terrorist attacks on US targets, Clinton consistently urged Israel to accept Palestinian terrorism and insisted on turning a blind eye to blatant PA breaches of its commitments to Israel.
Although the actions will diminish the financial crisis for awhile, nothing they did or will do in the future will resolve the economic crisis.
Although there have been no concrete advances in 15 years, newer therapies with less toxicity may begin replacing M-VAC without compromising survival.
Although these HUGE rolls are NOT "select-a-size" rolls (see Bounty Huge Roll, Select A Size, White, 2 roll (Pack of 6)), I really love them, and will be buying them in the future!
Although these are only two examples, there could be more in the future.
Although this post was written at the request of a friend who wanted a narrative to be used for commercial promotion of Fine Art Photography, in truth it was a long time coming and something I have been pondering for quite a while.
Although we currently do not have a parent company, any subsidiaries, joint ventures, or other companies under a common control (collectively, "related entities"), we may in the future.
Although we endeavour to provide accurate and timely information, there can be no guarantee that such information is accurate as of the date it is received or that it will continue to be accurate in the future.
Although we have to sell him at some point in the upcoming year, it will be nice to show him and add some more blue ribbons to his show record.
Although you have to plan your future yet to live in the future is not wise.
Always good for game industry news, Purple Pawn asks What’s In the Future [.
Am I the only one who sometimes comes here, logs in, and fools around?
Amazingly, she eliminated her debt within a year but, even more surprisingly to her, she found that she didn't feel that she was missing out on much.
Amber, yeah I’ll have to talk more about coffee in the future.
Ambert notes that, although biomedical knowledge about the birth families is scarce in international adoptions adoptive parents are also aware that they will not have to contend with reunions with birth parents in the future.
Amendment 4 will givevoters the ability to stop runaway county commissions in the future.
Amendment 60: If passed would require school districts to cut property tax rates by 50 percent in 10 years, but would not include taxes approved by voters for debt, such as bond issues.
America could be the next russia in the future, unfortunelly, but the prospects are no good.
America's greatness will endure in the future only if our institutions continually rededicate themselves to saying yes to the people--yes to human needs and aspirations, yes to democracy and the consent of the governed, yes to equal opportunity and unlimited horizons of achievement for every American.
American Express Preferred Rewards Gold  Point Rewards No annual fee in the first year; Earn 10,000 Membership Rewards(R) bonus points when you spend $500 in 3 months – redeemable for a $100 gift card!
American extreme metal royalty returns with their first new studio album in eight years.
Among 142 admissions, 68% were high risk according to the Rai criteria, 68% of patients admitted had received prior therapy for CLL, and 35% had received treatment within 3 months of admission.
Among other marquee factoids in the report is the need to find 64 million b/d of new production, or four Saudi Arabia’s, in the next 22 years.
Among schools with the neediest students, one school graduated 90 percent of students in four years.
Among scores of questions about all kinds of foreign policy issues, interviewers used this wording: "I am going to read to you a list of possible threats to the vital interest of the United States in the next 10 years.
Among the many qualities that will change the way people retire in the future, health, peace, tranquility and involvement are foundational to an active life that maintains its interest, relationships and connectivity to the world.
Among the top 1,000 companies in America, about 20% of income now results from alliances, and analysts predict it will rise at least 50% in the next two years.
Amy Winehouse`s first full UK show in seven months has been overshadowed by an incident in which she appeared to throw a punch at a fan in the front row.
An "EX" is called an "EX" because it's an EXample of who you shouldn't date in the future.
An Alabama seaman alleges he was injured twice within a month while working aboard a vessel off the Louisiana coast, recent court documents say.
An August workshop presentation to the Fort Worth City Council suggested that if pipelines are allowed to be placed under streets in the future, all construction would have to meet city standards, the work site would be properly barricaded during construction to place the pipelines and the pipeline contractor would have to be licensed, bonded and meet city insurance requirements.
An Indian seafarer who is employed on a foreign vessels for 183 days or more in a year is entitled to non-resident status as per Section 6 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and therefore eligible for income tax exemption.
An Iowa farm received hundreds of positive results for salmonella in the two years before its eggs sickened more than 1,500 people, investigators said.
An NSAI member for 7 years, Marc-Alan devotes his time to mentor aspiring songwriters through NSAI's "Adopt-a-Shop" program; he's been a team captain two years in a row for the Tin Pan South songwriter's festival held each Spring in Nashville; shared his experience as the May 2000 guest speaker in NSAI's Thursday Night Workshop Series; and is a perennial favorite at the world famous Frank Brown Songwriter's Festival.
An SEC filing by Google cites We have regularly paid refunds related to fraudulent clicks and expect to do so in the future.
An analyst with extremely complex statistical metrics, such as my math model is more likely to be successful in the future than a gambler who won 30 out of 50 games, but can't offer a reason other than, "I'm the million dollar man, I just pick locks.
An annuity designed to make a single lump sum payment or a series of lump sum payments in the future.
An assessment will be completed and ready for viewing within the next three years.
An early payoff will help fix your credit report score score, making it easier to secure loans in the future.
An effort of 14 to 21 hours per week will be required on your part since the course must be produced within 12 months.
An expert panel of 28 eminent international scientists and experts in genome-related technology and global health issues have expressed their collective opinion on the top 10 genomic and other biotechnologies with the "greatest promise of improving global health within a decade, particularly in the world's poorer countries".
An exploratory concept, the Evolander represents the design and engineering possibilities of what could be an Outlander Ralliart production model in the future.
An immediate reaction causes children to fear bringing up things in the future, cutting the lines of communication.
An important insight into those early years comes from Frank McEwen - founder of the Workshop School and the first direction of the new National Art Gallery of Zimbabwe.
An inclusion must be rescheduled within a 2 month period from the original date of booking.
An integrated approach to genetics and molecular breeding is likely to make a food-based approach to nutrition even more effective in the future.
An internal combustion engine, powered by hydrogen should play an important role in the future of sustainable mobility,” said Tom Baloga, BMW Vice President of Engineering.
An overview of the market for fuel-efficient vehicles, the effect of gas prices on automobile consumption preferences, which companies are thriving, which research and development initiatives will pay off in the future, and unique strategies to potentially profit from the future of the automobile industry.
Analysis showed that the forehead and chin area were gradually aging, however, in central face, the aging rate was astonishing, the cheek can be reduced up to 35% in a year's time.
And 90% of those with internet access said they are using the internet today or will use the internet within the next two years to order online through foodservice dealers.
And Cary Huffman, a retired coal miner, says that “if the coal companies take it away by taking the top off these mountains, filling in the valleys, shutting down our water supply… there’ll be nothing here for our kids in the future.
And David Wells was a hero, having pitched only the 15th perfect game in the 118 years of major-league baseball.
And Democrats seized a majority of the nation's governorships for the first time in 12 years.
And I decided -- and I`ve had a couple of other visiting -- I had a very, very nice offer from Berkeley at one point, and I really decided after that year coming back to teach at Harvard that I didn`t want to teach, I wanted to write, which is what I love doing and what I`m better at.
And I would hope that it is the sort of example that others will follow in the future," said Weeden.
And I´m pretty sure you will deliver even more in the future – so I´m not worried at all.
And about the uploaders moving elsewhere, it will do exactly the opposite, it will bring professional uploaders who don't feed on fantasy and know they will upload to get something in return, and that is what we see in big forums with terabytes of quality uploads done by a single user in a month.
And as far as the time table is concerned, the United States has said, or expressed its belief, that the talks can be conducted in one year.
And as much as I’d love to, I can’t read all the books published in a year just to find the ones I really want to read.
And as to the Battle of the Cowshed, I believe the time will come when we shall find that Snowball's part in it was much exaggerated.
And best of all, homeowners can lease from SolarCity instead of having to pay tens of thousands of dollars out of pocket to buy equipment that may become obsolete in a few years.
And better, I can someday stand before my Teacher & hopefully hear Him say, “Well done, student.
And by the time i come up with some clear thoughts, maybe i won’t be the first male to comment.
And don’t imagine he’ll get this message, ‘cause when the time comes to press the send key, I’m going to press cancel instead.
And even as other phones try to catch up, the technologies and features built into iOS 4 keep it years ahead of the competition.
And eventually there will be some service work and, as just mentioned, they will very likely buy another boat in the future; most likely a larger boat with bigger margins.
And from 1970 to 1983, we get another 28,500 horns made in 13 years, which is about 2200 per year.
And he was recently selected by Martha Stewart as one of the best wedding ideas in 15 years.
And here are a few more reasons my temperature has been rising: Andy Prieboy made his first appearance in two years at the Knitting Factory’s Alterna-Knit Lounge.
And if I am alive in several years then I will really start to play.
And if he can win a title this year he will be one year ahead of Jordan, who didn't win a title until his seventh season in the L (and had one of the NBA's 50 greatest players of all-time riding shotgun with him - LeBron has Mo Williams).
And if in the future there will be additional pro-Coranto sites from people who contributed with dedicated programming to its core, where some special features or other important things will be released, I will have no problem in adding additional options to these extra sites as well.
And if in the future, with God's help, there is peace, there will certainly be no reason for not being there.
And if not, you'll have the opportunity to use your training in other ways in the future.
And if you are feeling generous someday and would like to donate a car to the deek-needs-a-car-fund then I would be forever grateful and forever in your debt!
And if you change your email again in the future just let us know and we'll pass that on as well.
And if you think coming from the worlds carbon-intensive economy and from a very flat start on this question, in two years to be in the position we are today where were trying with all the powers available to us to get through the Australian Parliament an Emissions Trading Scheme despite formidable political and other opposition, and internationally work as hard as we can through the global process presided over by the UN Secretary-General on the one hand and Prime Minister Rasmussen on the other to get a global deal, this has required a fair bit of effort on our part as well.
And if your business loss is so great that it more than offsets all your other income, you can take advantage of a special rule that lets you: a) Carry back that excess loss to the two prior years, thereby entitling you to a refund of taxes you already paid for either (or both) of those two prior years; and/or b) Carry forward that excess loss to the next 20 future years, so that any income you earn in the future will be reduced by that excess loss.
And in November 2003, the Third Ex-ante evaluation mission team was dispatched to discuss the management planning of CJCC in the future.
And in spite of this gold has gone up over 400% in 11 years.
And in the future advancement of the whole human family to holiness and happiness.
And in the next month or so, Bonnie will be helping Andy expand his family.
And in time all things shall pass away, in time, you may come back someday.
And it has won prestigious honors: it became the first radio or public broadcasting organization in 12 years to receive the 2006 Joan S.
And it is this specific last bullet that will be used to infinity in the next few years and starting very soon, namely UNLIMITED MONEY PRINTING.
And it looks like that pertains to the upcoming month as well.
And it was plenty more than her husband could produce in a month.
And it was the second in 15 months and the third since June 2004 for the NHRA family to honor racers killed in action.
And it's not as if these 13 parking spots couldn't be repurposed in the future -- if and when a time comes when they are no longer needed.
And keep in mind that we will be building our service according to your wishes in the future.
And keep in mind that, in addition to revenue splits, the contract will also stipulate dollar minimums that you as the licensee will need to pay to hang onto the license in the years ahead—regardless of the revenue the game generates.
And maybe by the time i come up with a well thought well organized comment, i won’t be the first male on here to say something!
And none will exist in the future.
And our economy’s growing for the first time in a year.
And parents of current youth players are ideal candidates, not necessarily to start now, but in the future.
And part of that poise likely comes from the fact that Bowie knows that his new album is the best he's produced in 10 years.
And please look for more articles in the future.
And remember, you may expand in the future.
And research is ongoing for a number of potential treatments in the future.
And she studied sociology which is what I'm planning to study, she is basically me in 20 years!
And so I am enthusiastically taking the Giving Pledge, and nearly all of my net worth will be given away in the years ahead or left to my foundation.
And someday I'll outreach this skin--reach you.
And someday soon, I believe, a winner will emerge and the loser will fade from memory.
And someday, I’ll probably see my own death; it’ll come to me the same way.
And students who complete high school and go on to college are less likely to need public assistance in the future, for themselves or for their children.
And talking about Minis 10 - Naruto commercial was impressive indeed It may be good idea to use sountracks from popular commercials and trailers in the future too.
And that defaulting could make it significantly more difficult to buy a home in the future.
And that's why I've directed the Office of Management and Budget, the Domestic Policy Council, the National Economic Council, and the Office of Urban Affairs to conduct the first comprehensive interagency review in 30 years of how the federal government approaches and funds urban and metropolitan areas so that we can start having a concentrated, focused, strategic approach to federal efforts to revitalize our metropolitan areas.
And that’s one expectation that I can look into my crystal ball and divine will not change in the next four years.
And the Samaritans is now working on a plan of action to try and ensure this type of heartbreaking tragedy can be avoided in the future.
And the key actors in this particular episode all turned against Joseph openly and left the Church within a few years.
And the lavender… Fragrant, flowery, and prepared to slip into more baked goods in the future.
And the next time I come back, it's got the entry down rock-solid.
And the short life of a pope is also a cause of weakness; for in the ten years, which is the average life of a pope, he can with difficulty lower one of the factions; and if, so to speak, one people should almost destroy the Colonnesi, another would arise hostile to the Orsini, who would support their opponents, and yet would not have time to ruin the Orsini.
And the voice like a trumpet which I had previously heard talking with me, said: "Come up here, and I will show you what must take place in the future.
And the whimsicalness of the Christian church …and that’s in the future.
And then, at her daughter’s wedding, Karin faced her former husband for the first time in 20 years, opening her heart to a blessed reunion by forgiving decades-old resentments.
And there are many voices that suggest Google will not be able to do that in the future, because of the power Baidu supporters have over IT networks and ISPs.
And therefore he, though with respect to those in the thousand years bound, is not destroyed; and the vision accordingly requires to close with an account of his complete destruction, and of course this also must needs be presented in the narrative form of a release of Satan, the gathering of his hosts and their destruction from above' (Article, The Millennium and the Apocalypse; reprinted in Biblical Doctrines, pp.
And this is where time comes in.
And thus day after day, patient, careful, laborious, and persevering, in a few months he transformed this untrained yeomanry into a disciplined and effective army.
And to see in the next year, here are some Japanese phrases that might help you survive the New Year celebrations.
And try not to mention lack of standing, Constitutional acceptance of the election, and logic in the future.
And we believe that this same skill will allow them to pick the right stocks at the right times in the future after we give them our money to invest.
And we finished poisoning off the Earth and everyone was dead in a hundred years.
And we haven’t done anything together in 30 years.
And we must ask further, why, if such an important earthly interval lies ahead, why did not Christ and the apostles clearly predict that the temple would be rebuilt, the Levitical sacrifices and rituals re-established, the Aaronic priesthood restored, the Jews again appointed to be a separate and especially favored people, and Jerusalem again made the center of the world's worship in a thousand year Jewish kingdom?
And we welcome any meetings in the future with such as powerful and innovative community.
And we will be publishing a series of booklets or pamphlets starting within a few months on a series of Unitarian subjects.
And we've launched an effort to secure all loose nuclear materials within four years.
And we’re talking about making money in the 2nd or 3rd week and NOT in 3 months time.
And what if we did this again a month down the line, just recommend one quality business member each.
And what irks me is when bad mistakes are pointed out (I’ve proofread many an English paper in my 30 years), and people say, “I’m just really bad at it.
And when the first show in London was the third concert within a month (after Berlin and Frankfurt) where Dylan performed both ‘I Am The Man Thomas’ and ‘Solid Rock’, thus presenting an audience with two songs about Jesus Christ (one about his death and resurrection, and one stating that for him this Jesus Christ was chastised, hated, and rejected by a world that He created) he probably did this on purpose.
And when the time comes to follow, it will happen without incident because no one will feel threatened.
And when the time comes, should I admit my lack of inexperience?
And when you do visit them in a month’s time, or whenever it i s, you often find that they’re not so bad after all.
And while they still express faith in the future of the 30-second spot, advertisers feel that the fundamentals to support their use is in need of an overhaul.
And with the warmer months comes Vivacity, an exciting suite of artistic, sporting and cultural festivals scheduled for December, January and February.
And within 11 months of the Supreme Court taking up the Flores case, four cases have been decided in favor of the government and three in favor of the defendant.
And within 4 months, I went on 29 more.
And within a few months, Poinsett would appoint Wilkes to the command.
And yet, in all three cases that ruled in favor of the defendant, there was strong dissent, some of which gave Congress rewritten statutory language for the aggravated identity theft statute to help prevent the law from being reinterpreted in the future.
And you know, technically, I suspect that the federal government could decide as part of its plenary immigration authority that it is going to forgive all crimes committed by people here illegally in the 10 years prior to the amnesty.
And, USDA raised corn-use projections for both ethanol and exports reducing corn stocks to the lowest level in seven years, and inventories as a percent of annual use to the lowest level since 1996.
And, if we do that now - with health care, with energy, with education - then someday we will look back at this moment as the time when we did what's necessary to leave our children an America that is as bold, ascendant, and imaginative as the America we inherited from our parents.
And, we haven't built any nuclear in 30 years.
Anderson retired from the business, having made about a 100 films in her 8 year career.
Andris Grinbergs, the executive director of Riga, told a meeting of a working group of the assembly of Christian congregations in the city not to focus attention on the event, adding that with little attention organizers might not be so interested in pursuing similar events in the future.
Angelina Jolie didn’t return from her three-day trip to Haiti with another kid, but the mother of six isn’t totally ruling out the idea of adding another tot to her bunch in the future.
Another advantage of debt advice is that your advisor will also suggest you some lifestyle changes you can make in the future to changes in your lifestyle to prevent another credit card debt pile up.
Another bonus is that the bolts look like they might be handy for mounting a timing wheel if I ever want to move to a Megajolt set up in the future!
Another corollary: on the one game day you restrain yourself and only bring one or two because "We'll never have time to play them all," you will have time coming out your ears.
Another drawback of forex mechanical trading systems is that they need historical data inputted into them in order to calculate what might happen in the future.
Another example could be "eight projects in 6 years in C++, SAS, HTML, CAD, and TCP/IP".
Another great reason to get a checking or savings account with a financial institution such as a bank or credit union is that they are a great place to apply for loans in the future since you have already established a relationship with them.
Another year comes to an end and what a year this has been.
Another year is coming to an end!
Another year is coming to an end, and what a pivotal year it’s been.
Antiresorptive agents, such as the bisphosphonates, estrogen, and raloxifene, produce modest improvements in bone mass and reduce fractures, in some instances within one year of use.
Any action to contest the validity of the Will must be filed within three months after the fiduciary has filed a certificate with the Court that notice has been given to all next of kin and beneficiaries of decedent's Will.
Any action to contest the validity of the Will must be filed within three months after the fiduciary has filed a certificate with the Court that notice has been given to all next of kin and/or beneficiaries of decedent under his Will.
Any action, claim, suit or proceeding must be commenced within one year of you leaving the ship or of the date when you first had knowledge of the material facts giving rise to your claim, whichever first occurs.
Any affiliate making $600 or more in one year will require a 1099.
Any business, whether a company, partnership or sole trader must register its details with the Employment and Training Board within 3 months of commencement of business.
Any other information, such as descriptions of occasions, will be appreciated by those who might own the photo in the future.
Any other kind of shoes is going to be destroyed in a month or two and Rocket Dog Womens Roxas Shoes (Blue) if you really skateboard.
Any permission granted should have a section 106 agreement to prevent it being used as residential accommodation in the future.
Any projects in the future for the three of you together?
Any resemblance to anyone living, dead, or born in the future, is purely coincidental.
Any stock parts removed from the car have been carefully stored away and can be put back on the car if it is sold at some time in the future.
Anyone who studies this current situation realizes pragmatically that this is ONLY the BEGINNING of the BEGINNING, of the hard times coming.
Anyone whose goal is 'something higher' must expect someday to suffer vertigo.
Anyway, I'm just about over not having nailed a score (cough) in four years or however long it's been.
Anyway, IMHO it is quite late now for a port, since AoK will be out in three months .
Anyway, that is the second 97 I have had in a month and hopefully it is a sign of good things to come.
Anyway, the few write-ups that I have done are listed below and I will be sure to do new write-ups on any mods I do in the future.
Anyway, the good news is this show will probably be cancelled within the next few years.
Anyway, we're currently putting together a build of the game which we're hoping will be well met by journos in the future.
Anyways, I enjoy making paddles at the same time as doing a boat so I'm sure I'll end up making more paddles in the future.
Anyways, I was having such a hard time coming up witha card.
Apart from our five and six year entry level graduate programs the majority of our students are able to graduate in four years.
Apologies if your town is not one of those listed above – please let us know if you would like to host a training event for your country in the future and we’ll see what we can do!
Apparently before she was diagnosed, she lost 10 pounds within a month.
Apparently it hasn’t changed in 35 years!
Apparently the committee's brief is to provide and develop a plan for the Minister in six months time, if he is still Minister for Health.
Apparently, we were like these dead Eskimo, punk-rock people who couldn’t speak and landed in the future.
Apple Removes Sex-based Apps from the App Store Complete Video Coverage of the iPhone and iPad at Macworld 2010 TiPb Give-away: HAVA Titanium HD WIFI box with iPhone App Live from the Windows Phone 7 Series Introduction , Hands-On with 7 Series Windows Phone 7 Series: What you need to know going in , Interface and Features Hands-On with the HTC HD Mini We’re back from Mobile World Congress 2010 battered but excited for the upcoming year in smartphones.
Apple and the Enterprise: In 20 Years, "Who Would.
Applicant should be in the same line of business for at least three years and has favorable credit and bank reports dated within 6 month.
Applications which previously triggered these leaks now reload without error, and new applications will be covered as well, and the Tomcat team has voiced a dedication to providing additional workarounds in the future.
Approaching the child, he said, "My you’ve grown a lot in a year, button.
Approva allowed IT Security to close out several audit findings within 2 months and improve visibility into the system settings.
Approximately 60 percent of former NBA players go broke within five years of retirement.
Approximately forty percent of PAs currently employed by the VA are eligible for retirement in the next five years, and the VA is simply not competitive with the private sector for new PA graduates.
Approximately half of PTSD sufferers experience complete recovery within 3 months.
Are we likely to see Gabriel Allon in a screenplay in the future?
Are we, as a society, prepared to limit everyone's freedom of action in order to limit the potential of some of these possible events in the future?
Are you as likely to willingly give them feedback in the future or to work to make that feedback as effective as it could be?
Are you planning to sell in 5 years?
Are you planning to travel to Asia within the next year, and are looking for some fun festivities to attend?
Are you prepared your bathroom in the future, perhaps?
Aren’t a lot of these things about protecting people in the future from further incursions/hardships?
Arguably our best result in 40 years came around a couple of weeks after moving so we might as well put that win down to that.
Armageddon’s Children was fantastic, easily the best book Terry Brooks had written in several years.
Armstrong said: "Sticking solar panels on the roof and all that is great, but Manchester airport is planning to double passenger numbers in the next 20 years.
Arrangements made with President Sadat of Egypt, resulted in three decades of top secret excavations to penetrate the system.
Arsenal reached 17 thanks to the 3-0 win over Blackburn  in the semi of 2005 (taking us to our 4th final in 5 years).
As "an amateur in human nature", he enjoys watching people and their reactions, but is "honest enough to admit to his belief that within 50 years Christianity would be nothing more than a folk memory in his part of Lincolnshire".
As Harken Energy reported significant financial losses within a year of this sale (as did much of the energy industry due to the recession of the early 1990s), the fact that Bush was advised by his own counsel not to sell his shares later fueled allegations of insider trading.
As I began to write this post this morning, I received a message on Facebook from an old friend I haven’t talked to in four years, N-.
As I go through the early printed editions I mention having seen the 1550 Stephanus text back in the late 90s, and how I informed the collector who had it that he needed to put me in his will so that I would someday have that text.
As I have never found any ill affects (in several years) it doesn't seem a bad policy.
As I mentioned in today’s post, their research showed only 7 lbs lost in a month, and the weight loss increases after that to 10 lbs.
As I played through the old songs the three of us had agreed to resurrect for the “Time Machine” tour, some of which I hadn’t played live in ten years, twenty years, or ever, it occurred to me that the ultimate time machine might be a song.
As I say, I look forward to getting the information from IMA and MAA so we don't have to bicker about this in the future.
As I stated before, I've used him in the past and I will continue to use him in the future.
As Mr Nutting concludes: "We will continue to add to our stable of programmes to increase our offering and further support Manulife staff and agents in the future.
As a Mom I have had the pleasure of decorating and re-decorating several rooms in order to accommodate the birth of three kids in a four year period.
As a development build your campaign to your game in a few months ago Wilson Brothers have changed their creative space where Kobe Shoes  were organized in relation to the introduction of Nike in London.
As a matter of fact I haven't been to any of these in 7 months, as I write this.
As a realtor, what kind of website can you create, that you can expect to benefit from it in the future?
As a result in two years, GE's performance was greater than expected.
As a result, a full-time student at Napa Valley College could actually pay less for eight classes in one year than for one semester class at a four-year institution!
As a result, my Administration projected a ten year, $43 billion program to increase mass transit capacity by 50 percent, and promote more energy efficient vehicle uses in the next decade.
As a wider perspective is likely to develop in the future among physicians and cardiologists, due to the entry of novel drugs in the market, the genesis of a new and refined atrial fibrillation drug therapy is predicted to emerge, with gap junction modulators, ion channel blockers and effective oral anti-coagulation therapies leading the way.
As always, I urge you to pray for our Father’s loving guidance in helping you handle each situation you might someday have to deal with, and for his perfect peace about every decision you will have to make.
As discussed in the previous Understanding Money and War articles and the Goldsmiths series, the hyperinflationary blow out and its aftermath with Adolf Schicklgruber could have a repeat in the next few years in the United States.
As far as Facebook integration, we might consider it in the future.
As far as I'm concerned, it's always worth it, but that's difficult for someone who hasn't had sex in two years to understand.
As for Iraq, I think we should have gotten out of Iraq a long time ago (immediately after capturing Hossein), should have told the Iraq people that they are accountable for their leaders (so do a better job of managing them in the future, or we'll have to come back), and charged them for the cost of our having to come over there in the first place.
As for my role in the game industry is to someday be the developer of this idea and communicates what the game consists of with the rest of the team.
As her base powerset is derived from aquatic organisms, she may realise this, and may be able to pick up additional powers from aquatic organisms in the future - but probably only if creatures with that ability are nearby.
As in the chart for Israel, the Iraq chart points to continuing power struggles in the years ahead, too many aspects to list.
As in the upcoming year of 2010, it's time to start looking to the outstanding opportunities in the business world.
As leaders, we are severely crippled in causing great moments and having meaningful interactions when we let the past drive our leadership today and in the future.
As long as there are enthusiasts for this game, hog hunting will not disappear, but if the public opinion expressed a stronger opposition to it, things could be different in the future.
As many as 25 to 33 percent of women diagnosed with operable breast cancer will have a recurrence within five years of diagnosis.
As messed up as New Orleans is today, over three years since Katrina, the Manatee Sheriffs could learn a thing or two about how handle natural disasters and avoid destruction of evidence in the future.
As new goals  are now being developed for 2020, major changes at the policy and individual levels need totake placefor us to make better progress in the next decade.
As new home construction someday comes out of its slump, electricity demand will grow.
As one of GBHS’s discharge planners, she works with clients and their families, when the time comes to leave the hospital, to help decide on the best place for continuing care – the home, long-term care, a retirement home, even a different kind of hospital.
As one of the newest facilitators of futures research, I feel especially grateful that I am a part of a universal body that is going to make a better world for every human being now and in the future.
As our nation’s history is recounted, you will find yourself transported back in time 234 years to witness the first shots on Lexington Green and hear the resounding clash of arms as British Regulars were forced from the North Bridge in Concord.
As part of a continued commitment to work together with leading academics from universities worldwide, Syrris are providing scientists with the opportunity to win one month’s free use of one of its FRX systems, the FRX300, including delivery, training, and system support.
As part of a panel that included Craig Alexander, Vice President at Turbine; Robert Ferrari, Vice President at Sanrio Digital; and Eugene Evans, Senior Director at Mythic Entertainment, Schilling discussed different MMOG business models and how the models may change in the future.
As part of its fundraising for the upcoming year, the First Response Team of America has a challenge grant open with the Caterpillar Foundation to match funds through 2010.
As part of our focus on the Indian consumer, we have outlined a retail strategy under which, we will partner with over 500 retail centers in India within the next six months.
As part of subdivision review, the city manager will consider conditions of the site plan approval and assure that they will be met within the future subdivision.
As part of your secure personal profile, you can also change your score at any time in the future.
As someone who uses "Quick Look" to browse files it would be great if the icon displayed the file contents in the future.
As such, there is a good chance I'll better appreciate Vertigo in the future.
As technology improves, GPS will be installed in every cell phone, and this will probably happen within the next decade.
As the academic year comes to an end, students start gearing up for the placements.
As the article describes, “Even when an orphan is lucky enough to be taken in by a loving family or orphanage, however, the time will come when he or she must inevitably face the world alone.
As the nation’s leading franchise  specializing in non-medical and personal care and companionship services for seniors, new mothers and other individuals needing recuperative and continuing care, Home Helpers is rapidly filling demographic demand as more than 75 million Americans will reach age 65 in the next two decades.
As the story says, hopefully they will develop a mercury free CFL in the future so we can reduce greenhouse emissions, and keep our children safe from possible mercury exposure.
As the technology matures and is further supported by science, the environmental movement will continue to have a major impact on how and what we use to clean commercial facilities in the years ahead.
As the year comes to a close we would love all the people who attended to have the presentation handy and the people who missed out to have a taste of the action.
As these funds substantially increased their commitment to the LBO category, they were de facto increasing a guaranteed negative cash flow in the future to meet these draw-downs.
As time goes by I expect to make trips from Michigan and have more dance lessons each time I come to town.
As to baptism, for example, some would point out there is spiritual bapitism,baptisms at which witnesses see a person goingtotallyinto water or which is done by a sprinkling of water, baptism in Christ of only adults or baptism of infants either into Christ or symbolic of their being dedicated for such in the future,symbolic baptism of the dead applied on behalf of those who died before they had a chance to be physically baptised in water but who had intended to be so and wanted others to witness it being done.
As we look to the future and dream of acquiring our own shelter building some day, we also look back and realize how far we’ve come in five years - from a few friends simply sharing each other’s interest in the world of aviculture, to a Kansas Not-for-Profit Corporation, state licensed as a shelter, with a successful rescue and adoption program, educational programs and an enthusiastic membership serving the greater Kansas City area.
As we mentioned above, a sustained rise in oil prices should be a key growth driver for UCL in the years ahead.
As we sit alone, I know someday we must go, aw huh.
As we were loading the pets into the taxi, the little man from the big black car appeared on foot to tell Ron that he spoke Korean well, but not to talk like that in the future.
As with any other new planting, the flowering vine will at first be immature, in a few years time it will merrily create a vibrant presence that enhances your home and lifestyle.
As you obtain to know it, the time will come when it is fitting to bring serious subjects as a chronic medical condition.
As your credit union’s CFO, you play a pivotal role in the future performance of your credit union.
Ashraf Mahmoud, chairman and chief executive officer of the Egyptian Motor Sport Corporation, was at the A1-Ring this weekend as a special guest of Formula One supremo, Bernie Ecclestone and he took the opportunity to discuss the country's plan to host a round of the championship in the future.
Aside from offering green home inspections for $99, Go Green strives to achieve at least 25 percent energy savings within three months, otherwise, .
Ask for an anti-HBs blood test in the next month or two and follow serial results of that test over the next year to chart your clinical recovery.
Ask you, Will all this thinking, and doing matter in 30 years?
Ask yourself what you want to be in 5 years time.
Associated Press reports indicate that any such short-term cash bonuses within the next year will be subject to the decision.
Assuming in the future 9100 already too slow for major productivity software…sweet.
Aston Martin One-77  We’re assuming that when independent sources, say Motortrend, Car & Driver, and hopefully the Daily Derbi someday (forgive the gratuitous plug), go to test the claimed power of production cars on the dyno, manufacturers hold their breath.
Astronomer Robert Jastrow observed: “The lingering decline predicted by astronomers for the end of the world differs from the explosive conditions they have calculated for its birth, but the impact is the same: modern science denies an eternal existence to the Universe, either in the past or in the future” (1977, p.
At ATC, students may retest only once within a two year period.
At Boynton she and your dad were a year ahead of me but then I skipped the 7th grade so we were all together in high school.
At Princeton University on September 30, 2005, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice was absolutely clear that Palestinian violence could not co-exist with Palestinian politics in the future.
At a meeting last November, Tarmac publicly stated they intended to begin extracting sand and gravel east of the henges in about four years' time.
At age 32 and with his two worst years coming in 2007 and 2009 he seems more likely to be a top-25 starter than a top-15 starter at this point, but even at his worst he's been a low-end No.
At age four, he and his family moved to Clarendon, where he was a lifelong resident of Donley County until moving to the Hudson House in Claude four years ago.
At an April 9, 2002, Republican fundraiser in Connecticut, he bragged that “my defense budget is the largest increase in 20 years.
At any one time in their future, children will need to speak clearly and confidently in an interview, large and small groups in classrooms, and someday even the boardroom.
At any rate, thanks for the best firearms purchasing experiences I have had in the 45 years I have been buying and shooting guns.
At current rates of production, China would exhaust its known gold reserves in about six years, he said.
At first glance what we’ve accomplished in five years doesn’t look like much, but those who join us in our backyard soon appreciate what has happened:we’ve created an oasis of peace and beauty, a wildlife sanctuary in the middle of urban sprawl.
At last they manage to agree, and they decide upon the quantity of each thing of which they will lay in a three months' provision; sugar, rice, prunes, coffee, preserves, cans of peas, beans, lobster, salt or smoked fish, etc.
At last, the report will forecast the situation of coal tar in the next few years in demand, supply and industry earning capacity.
At least four months before the date of each election, the Secretary-General of the United Nations shall address a letter to States Parties inviting them to submit their nominations within two months.
At least two checks written during the period of our review were not presented for payment within two months of the date written.
At only 27, he's still got a lot of good years ahead of him.
At present I am so overwhelmed with sorrow that I hardly know what to think or determine, but it is probable that within the next six months I shall visit Massachusetts the place of my birth, & bring my little girl to see her grandparents.
At some point in the future, I might look into that idea.
At some point in the future, this may turn into a weekly competition with prizes.
At that growth rate, TSCM could be earning around 50 cents per share within the next five years.
At that time, he projected that the report would be completed within three months and will show the present owner or user of each parcel in Jerusalem and the Arab owner of each parcel prior to 1948.
At the completion of the deal, which is expected to close within a year, all the landline and wireless businesses will exist under the sole brand name of AT&T, the companies said.
At the core of archival practice lies the identifiability of a specific document as the very same document not only today but also in a year, a decade or even a century.
At the event, we showed our video exposing the illegal behavior involved in the sadistic”Folsom Street Fair” in San Francisco  –and called on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-San Francisco) to denounce it and take measures to stop such illegal activity in the future.
At the national level, his pioneering cross-party campaigning for the Green Alliance and the Campaign for Free Votes was years ahead of its time but paved the way for these issues to be brought into the political mainstream.
At the rate each are growing, I should be able to have a adequate marketing pool in several months.
At this point no one knows what went on in the Hamlin household in the next three months except those who lived there.
At this point with all the development, bad habitat managment, and over fishing I pray that I will have a job as a guide in 5 years.
At this point you will definitely be proudly announcing that you are continuing to use their cost effective services in the future.
At this point, it seems as though the crews working on the disaster want to ensure that everything is done correctly, that there’s no additional problems in the process or resultant from the effort and that when the job is done it won’t pose a risk to the environment due to possible leaking or rupture in the future.
At this rate, in 15 years, another friend will send me a picture of him or herself with Michael Palin, Terry Jones or Terry Gilliam.
Attorney Jim Letten saidSean actively participated in a years-long scheme to keep using the car andhide it from authorities.
Attorney’s office,”  nor would it in the future.
Austin is a great American city (GAC)—one we hadn’t visited in four years.
Australia's tight jobs market is continuing to thaw with vacancies falling in the three months to November, however labour shortages still remain an issue.
Australian researchers interviewed 1,280 women and found that while 93% of new moms nursed their babies in the first few weeks after birth, those who had epidurals for pain relief during labour and delivery were more likely to stop breastfeeding in the next six months.
Australian retailers are failing to capitalise on sales that could be gained from online retailing, while industry experts remain at odds over just how significant the mobile phone will be in the future shopping experience.
Author Resource:- At Cali Bamboo where we promote the use of bamboo  as an alternative product made from renewable resources, that can help make a difference in the future of our planet.
Available 18th October & furnished from YOUR UK LETTING AGENCY OF THE YEAR comes this 3 bed semi detached property located on the popular Penn Heights development.
Axis Bank, India’s third-largest private bank has begun implementing it’s rural expansion plans and intends to cover 5,500 villages for financial inclusion by March 2011 and scale it up to 12,000 villages in five years’ time.
Ayalon warned Williams, who is responsible for the implementation of UN 1701 resolution, that Hizbullah fighters were testing surface-to-surface missile systems in Syria, and warned against the training of Hizbullah men on air-to-surface systems, which may be deployed in Lebanon in the future.
BAD:Its a wonderful place to live and we look forward to moving back there someday in the future.
BBC has explained that a WLM underline is initial as well as if it incited out to be successful, it will in the future hurl this out to alternative IM services.
BUSH'S ANSWER: "The Social Security Administration (SSA) itself says that, absent changes such as personal retirement accounts, benefit cuts and/or tax increases will occur again in the future.
Babygirl will be out of high school and moving on to college in two years.
Bachchan marks our next phase of expansion and we believe that Max Vijay has the potential to touch the lives of over 10 million households in the next two years”, Mr.
Back to BX China to become world's biggest solar consumer China will become the world's largest consumer of solar energy within two years.
Balancing your realistic expectations with your belief that miracles await you will tip the scales in your favor and assure you a very successful year ahead!
Bank loans, current portion Installment of bank loan due for repayment within 12 months.
Bankruptcy rates in Illinois are the highest they have been in five years – and economists believe that rates will not return to normal for several years to come.
Barak said he is sure that his path was the correct one, and this would be proven in the future.
Bari/Juve will be a big test for Juve as they try to win their first Serie A in 6 years.
Bartali was the first rider to win the Tour de France overall title and mountains jersey in one year, 1938.
Based on what I have bought in the past, it makes recommendations on what I should buy in the future.
Based upon Austin Telco Federal Credit Union's capability to access and aggregate online financial account information about your service provider accounts, a summary of your bill will be displayed on your Money HQ Service if the account has an amount due greater than zero and the due date is in the future or a limited days in the past.
Basically I was not trained properly, I had 2 different stores in 2 months.
Bath & North East Somerset Council would like to encourage residents, visitors and the business community to take this opportunity to get involved in the future of Keynsham town centre.
Battling a few sniffles, a relaxed David Bowie kicked off his first major North American tour in eight years in Montreal on Saturday after scrapping his first five shows because of the flu.
Be careful about signing players for high bonuses, however; this amount is guaranteed to the player, and cutting or trading him in the future will require you to pay this amount and have it count against your dead cap (if your league uses the salary cap).
Be forewarned, however, that and if you earn over $600 in money in a year's time, you will need to complete a 1099 form and declare the earnings on your income tax statement.
Be more careful in the future, would you?
Be open and you will get more feedback in the future (and you’ll make better use of the feedback you are currently receiving!
Be patient, your time will come.
Be sure to keep your PIN in a safe place; you will be able to use the same PIN in the future to apply electronically for student aid and access your U.
Be sure to stop by in the next month to watch us prepare these critters and more in our lab viewing area.
Be wrote that "A recent survey of 4,292 adult smartphone buyers by ChangeWave Research found that only 4% of respondents planned to buy the Pre in the next six months.
Bearing in mind that it is only the excess of export profits over a fixed sum which qualifies for relief and, by virtue of s 32(3), only 90% of the excess which is exempted from tax, there will be an amount of gains or profits from which capital allowances can be deducted and if full effect cannot be given in one year to the allowances, the balance can be carried forward by virtue of s 23 of the Income Tax Act to a following year.
Because AAAC's wonderful job well done for my house, I will introduce your business to all of my clients in the future.
Because I may well someday live in Heather's home country, it is not a good idea for me to burn any bridges.
Because a kilowatt hour is the same as 1000 watt hours, the savings in a year's time may be less than two dollars.
Because films take several years to produce, we have used this work to predict the emotions of the audience in the future.
Because it was the kind of math that educational experts thought would be needed in the future — which has turned out to be true.
Because of Alice and the hospitality and professionalism of the agency, I am planning a second trip to China in the next six months.
Because the Web is an evolving medium, we may need to change our Privacy Policy at some point in the future, in which case we’ll post the changes to this Privacy Policy on this Web site and update the Effective Date of the policy to reflect the date of the changes.
Because this word from Paul is not written in the future tense, waiting for a later glory.
Beckham has recently been dealing with a serious injury to his ACL, but is set to return to the Los Angeles Galaxy within the next few months.
Before Islam girls were buried in sand alive by their fathers because of the fear of dishonor that might happen in the future.
Before we did Warcraft, in the four years previous we had done a puzzle game, Lost Vikings (index.
Beginning this Thursday, the Pacific Northwest College of Art will play host to a month-long exhibit called “PDXplore: Designing Portland” in which five local members of the architecture and design community explore ideas about how Portland will grow and change in the years ahead.
Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: and verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.
Being an information junkie, my ears pricked up immediately because as he explained it, for a small investment in a monthly Internet account, I could access newspapers from all over the world for free!
Being single will be a conscious life-style choice for many in the future and will soon become a cultural norm.
Being that I'm somewhat a fast-track cadet (1 achievement per 28 days- On two separate occasions, I've been promoted twice in a month), and I cannot be promoted until I complete CPPT, well that's somewhat concerning- I have 4 months to prepare, and if I'm not quick about completing this, or if something comes up- I'm out of luck for that much longer.
Being the super-impatient person I am, I often turn on the watch, set it on my front porch, go back in and change into my running outfit, and by the time I come back out it's ready to go.
Believe it or not, where you place these snacks will ultimately decide how much of weight you put on in a year.
Believing that your brain can do what is more expected of it would actually turn out to be a reality wen time comes.
Below is a list of activities used in the3 Year Curriculum to help improve fine & gross motor skills.
Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, said in a speech Wednesday that the nation would face difficult choices in the future because of an aging population.
Benefits can begin five years after people start paying a fee for the coverage.
Bennet spent the morning with John Cacich, vice president of academic and student affairs and MnCEME project leader, Bob Evans, talking about past MnCEME projects and what MnCEME should look like in the future.
Besides being a great guy, he can TEACH -- I hadn't taken a French class in the 3 years preceding this class, and by the end of the semester he'd whipped my written and spoken French into shape, instilled a love for the language, and made me seriously contemplate being at least a French minor, if not major.
Besides this Teen Titans Youth Shirt style, be sure to check back in the future for some of our new Teen Titans Tshirts, Teen Titans Tees and other Teen Titans merchandise.
Besides, it is a good learning step if you want to apply it to your home in the future.
Besides, the fun you will have making the video far outweighs the risk that mom and dad will someday be eating popcorn while watching you and the Mrs.
Besides, the station is going to be there, unused, someday, and we may as well come up with something to do with it rather than tear it down.
Best employers have a formal process for ensuring that they have the right kind of leaders to drive their businesses in the future.
Bethel's historic Midway theater closed its doors for the second time in two years Thursday, Aug.
Betsy Brown’s beautiful house is across the street from my house and it’s a nice sight to see every time I come or go!
Better than I have in ten years.
Beyond that, we have lost the respect of the world and lost two disastrous wars in three years.
Beyond these perhaps the biggest problem with taking these drugs for Herpes is the creation of drug-resistant strains of the virus that will make treating people in the future much more difficult.
Bible in One Year (1year.
Bible in Two Years (2year.
Big Star Jeans Liv Low Rise Bootcut in 14 Year Cobra (pd-big-star-jeans-liv-low-rise-bootcut-in14-year-cobra.
Big Star Jeans Taylor Boyfriend Crop in 16 Year (pd-big-star-jeans-taylor-boyfriend-crop-in-16-year.
Big Star Liv Cut Off Short w/Flap in 22 Year (pd-big-star-liv-shorts-wflap-in-22-year.
Big Star Liv Short in 10 Year (pd_big_star_liv_short_in_10_year.
Big Star Liv Shorts w/Flap in 22 Year (pd-big-star-liv-shorts-wflap-in-22-year.
Biggest sext survey in 20 years results released.
Bing’s new approach to search engines will change the way websites are optimized in the future, affecting the SEO industry.
Bjarne Rune, market-development manager for DeLaval, agrees that producers will see more and more of this technology in the future.
Black Mountain - In The Future (index.
Blackhawks general manager Stan Bowman expects to learn on Saturday whether his salary cap-squeezed team will be able to keep restricted free agent goaltender Antti Niemi, who backstopped Chicago to its first Stanley Cup in 49 years last spring.
Blessed are the servers, even if at times they weary in their task, for others serve them and the time will come when they shall serve and the weariness that accompanies earthly serving shall be no more.
Bob and I have every confidence in Bruce Zipf’s ability to guide NRT and strengthen the company’s position as a market leader in the years ahead.
Bold prediction: This woman will be in the news again within 6 months.
Bookmark this post and check it again in a year.
Bookmark this website in case you need it in the future.
Borrowing has fallen for the first time in 16 years.
Both of these vessels were hauled out last November for the first time in four years.
Both of us hope to see you on their televised portion in the future.
Both parts of the exam must be passed within two years of the date your training program was completed.
Both plants were within a few months of completion when the company filed for bankruptcy last year.
Both women had been told they could get out of debt in two years, but were then charged rents so high they were unable to afford staying in their homes.
Bowling Alone empirically demonstrates a drop in social capital in contemporary America, identifies the cause and consequences of this drop, and suggests ways to improve social capital in the future.
Bracken Hendricks, a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, told Senators Wednesday that up to $120 billion should be spent on energy-related projects in the next two years, including things like upgrading the nation's transmission lines and switching to "smart" electricity meters that could produce big gains in efficiency.
Braden they have accepted it, when the case is used as the basis of legal argument in the future.
Braswell’s leadership will be an addition to a program that normally gives players an alleyway in a year to find the school they want to attend and then gets them there.
Break out the calculator and find out how much you’ll need to net in a month, a week, and a day.
Brent will follow up in a month to make sure everyone is following through on his or her commitment.
Bring family and a picnic to Shakespeare's most enchanting comedy; revived in a magical Open Air production by this Brighton Company, performing together for the 1st time in 15 years.
Brits considering staying in their current property and improving it with a bespoke conservatory may be even more encouraged to do so after it was predicted that rocky times lie ahead for the housing market.
Brooklyn-based photographer Louise Sturges  — trained at the College of Santa Fe and the International Center of Photography — has her first solo show in two years this Friday from 7-10pm at COURT  .
Bruising or swelling will usually subside within a month after the procedure.
Budget actions taken at this time can set dangerous precedents for upcoming years, as prospects for NASA's future budget appear no better than for FY2005.
Buffy stumbles upon the fight in LA by accident and the pain of it has her making realisations that have been a long time coming.
Building on a process patented by OSU chemical engineering professor Chih-hung Chang, chemical engineering doctoral student Wei Wang will work on the fabrication of the cells while business student Nate Edwards will conduct market research and develop a business plan with the goal of spinning out a company in the next year.
Bupropion is showing nice hard numbers – about 30% are abstinent in a year and that means, well, if the patient relapses try them again.
Bureau of Labor Statistics’ Employment Cost Index released last week, in the 12 months to December 2009, total compensation grew by 1.
Burnside, (Someday Baby).
Bush has expanded the Cabinet for the first time in 15 years -- while also significantly expanding the federal role in education, creating a Medicare drug benefit, and enacting the first progressive campaign-reform bill in nearly 30 years.
Business owners may think that this is going to cost a tremendous amount of money to do, but in fact by looking for, documenting, and addressing any potential and existing MSD’s will save businesses 10 to 20 fold in the future due to lowering worker’s compensation premiums, health care costs and many “soft costs” that don’t show up on the accountants books.
Businesses ranging from shops to manufacturing companies and creative industries to the service sector have shared in a pot of £10,000 from the Council towards the cost of professional and business services to enable them to expand and prosper in the future.
But 3 lbs in 6 months is disappointing.
But 5, 000 new application in one month!
But Dylan did, after almost seven years, reintroduce ‘Gotta Serve Somebody’ into his set, and before he began opening his concerts with an acoustic set in April 1999, he would start more than another fifty shows within nine months with this extremely challenging song.
But I actually make more in a month than I used to in a whole year.
But I hope in the future to be there a video review for your products.
But I know someday reality will hit her in the face.
But I learned that if someone attacks you without knowing you and without sitting down with you to hear what you think, even if he changes his mind about you, he will attack you again in the future.
But I of course am gonna have her tested in the next month or so!
But I think nursing will see phenomenal growth in a few years, and the money is not important compared to what the job is worth to my quality of my life and those I care for.
But I'd like to tell you about this one because it taught me something valuable that might be of use to you someday.
But I’ve put on around 10 pounds of muscle and gone from a size 12-14 pants to a size 6 in two years.
But Jesus said, 6“As for what you see here, the time will come when not one stone will be left on another; every one of them will be thrown down.
But Mr Brown said it was not a serious problem and still expected to have the works completed in 12 months.
But a pirates in your blood boy and you'll have to square with that someday.
But above all, I spoke with leaders in every nation I visited about what we can do to sustain this economic recovery and bring back jobs and prosperity for our people â€“ a task I will continue to focus on relentlessly in the weeks and months ahead.
But are we going to be fishing for clone - gene alterted trout and salmon in the future (10 yrs.
But at a time when the only Web news anyone seems willing to talk about is the Nasdaq losing nearly one thousand points in a month, and when people who really couldn't care less about the stock market's woes are growing sick of all the dot-com keening, sites like the wholly unspectacular Commercials You Hate suddenly loom as low-budget avatars of the Web's greatest forgotten asset: unremunerated passion.
But because the program rotates out the older IPs I'm not having to unblock very many - about 45 our of 39,000 in 3 months.
But before all that I’m taking my first real Summer vacation in 16 years!
But by all accounts, this situation is likely to change in the years ahead.
But by paying back the loan amount, borrower can improve the credit score which will be beneficial for him in the future.
But consider the long term – delegation now will save time in the future, and if done appropriately can motivate your staff, boost their confidence and help them develop their skills.
But even such a hopeful and appropriate educational plan must be nested in a broader approach that pays attention to improving economic growth, creating career pathways, and ensuring social guarantees that will ease transitions, retraining, and other adjustments in years ahead (p.
But fear not, they will find something you can do to assist in your own support and screw up those very lazy days that you have grown fond of, and the reality that yes, you can, and yes, you will work again someday!
But for the sake of the Honor of the Pack,—a little matter that by being without a leader ye have forgotten,—I promise that if ye let the man-cub go to his own place, I will not, when my time comes to die, bare one tooth against ye.
But he believes China will make a change, because if they don’t do it now they will face serious consequences in the next 20 years.
But he hopes it turns into much more than just a grade someday.
But he told us that of everything that's out there, his biggest dream is to someday stand in the front yard of his own home with his wife and kids, who will hug him and say, "I love you, Daddy.
But his off-field behavior and four arrests in seven months are what could derail, or at least detour, his football career.
But his overall approach sometimes come under question.
But if there is really a special Brazil music genre we fully miss and if there are more as 2 albums in 1 year posted for it :-) please let me know.
But if they show takes a turn back towards a heavier political element in the future, I may jump back in again.
But if you also eat American ginseng everyday, you might be able to correct the disfigurement within 1 year.
But if you are a cautious driver and are confident that you are likely to be so in the future too, it will knock off a sizable chunk from your yearly payouts.
But if you can’t go or stay, make real goals to work on in the future.
But if you read the inside, it’s clear the actress only desires to have kids in the future.
But if you're totally freaked about maybe-possibly-someday cramping, be prepared.
But in a few years time, it simply will not be viable.
But in the future there will be no wives and no friends.
But in the future, when you do, rejoice!
But in the mean time, given that you and I and everyone we know will someday die, it might not be a bad idea to make the most of every precious second.
But in the next few years, consumers will shift towards lean-back, big TV-screen consumption.
But is it a good idea for the future of the monetary union for Germany and France, and it will be seen primarily as German instigation and enforcement, to demand the type of financial austerity and economic pain from the population of Greece now and perhaps Spain, Portugal, Ireland and others in the future that could very easily turn the voters of these countries against the EMU and the euro?
But it requires the company to cease impeding peer-to-peer applications, to tell the FCC how the practice has been used, and to notify customers about other network management practices it adopts in the future.
But it' s due in a year, so it' s going to have to speed up.
But it's not really important how far in the future they scheduled some minor line that might not happen anyway.
But it's time will come.
But janama, well, perhaps try again in five years, when many here have come to respect your opinion and expertise?
But just as we are called not to love our own sins — in fact, we are called to hate them, and to ask God for the grace to avoid sin in the future — so too are we called to hate the sins of our brothers and sisters, and as far as we are able, to help them avoid sin in the future.
But keep checking back to see the progress and updated information for this upcoming year as it becomes available.
But let's say, in three years, McPherson could be lighting up the NFL.
But mail back your Census form, and we'll revisit in the future!
But no culture would go and denounce its past in order to gain an advantage in the future.
But now that I've done it, I know the splendid mountains and the sense of accomplishment will draw me back someday.
But now we see that education (knowledge), is preparing the way for the world's great disaster, which the Scriptures seem to indicate may be expected within the next few years.
But now, thanks to citizen activists, the blogosphere, and environmentally conscious Americans throughout the land, there is now a much more powerful thing than “science” telling us that we have no choice but to get off coal in the next decade.
But of course, all these are examples of reconciliation within societies that are forced to live in the same state in the future.
But one of his best memories someday may just be the year he trick-or-treated as “Super Sports Cowboy Guy.
But really, who knows, I just don't think any of us know what's going to happen that far in the future.
But remember that the main reason for buying gold is to protect yourself from the destruction of paper money and assets that will take place in the next few years.
But she indulges in a decadent treat every once in a while.
But should I decide to build that mill in the future, the time I will save in experimentation and ruined parts will far exceed the $300 I spent for that plan set.
But some believe that German Chancellor Angela Merkel may have thrown them a lifeline by suggesting that a per-capita emissions quota be considered when it comes to fair burden sharing between developed and developing countries in the future.
But someday, just like my CS11 prof, I’ll try to fullfill them all.
But someday, you will be closer and I can help ya!
But that will possibly affect us years in the future.
But the 150 calories of sugar, when consumed in place of plain water, can increase your weight by 15 pounds in a year, Mr.
But the Chinese and Indian energy plans for the future, whoever they might be importing coal from in the future, these are huge domestic coal using countries as far as the two major emerging economies of the 21st century.
But the Haitians, who began trickling in 50 years ago in search of a better life in the far more stable and more prosperous Dominican Republic, must stay because they have nowhere else to go.
But the editor of Spanish language newspaper El Tiempo says in 30 years, he’s never experienced such a shutout as his team is getting from Angle’s campaign.
But the exterior design is strong and inviting and in a year’s time this will be one of the beauty spots of the Berkshires.
But the marriages were not binding since the notary was merely Despina in disguise, and Don Alfonso encourages everyone to move forward, forgiving the past, and to be more realistic in the future about the nature and limits of human love.
But the payoff is right around the corner when, in a few years, he gets dressed all by himself.
But the somedays were never to come for nineteen year old Wes.
But their time is come; and I fervently hope that the bell that tolled this morning in honor of this convention may be the death-knell of all fanaticism, of all persecutions with the sword or with the pen, and of all uncharitable feelings between persons wending their way to the same goal.
But then again, because they are Tigers, they are finally getting the things they need to make the move to their prospective colleges - a day that hope won’t be too far off in the future now that they have committed.
But there is no doubt in our mind’s that Bright Falls will be a place where we will be returning to in the future.
But these magazines, you could pick it up now, you could pick it up in a year’s time and it’s still going to be very relevant.
But they didn't have the financial sponsors or the ability to pull crowds for 59 games in one month.
But they may have to pay more after the entertainment giant reviews the market situation in about six months.
But they were often under attack, mostly from the Ottomans, culminating in a months-long onslaught known as The Great Siege of 1565.
But think about it, everyone’ll wuit someday and actually grow up!
But this all comes with a small drop in memory performance, still I have the option buy another 2GB corsair ValueSelect 667 in the future if I feel like blowing $ and 1GB of ram for a small increase in memory performance from true ‘Dual Channel’ mode.
But this explanation was rejected by the Special Commissioners who found that as the shares had been “transferred away” within about three months after the Resolutions had been passed it was “difficult to accept” that the true object of acquiring these shares was in order to expand its investments, and that was confirmed by the fact that its other investments of $175,000 nominal value were also “transferred away” by the end of 1963.
But this summit decided that the establishment the European stable mechanism will prevent to have the country to have the similar crisis in the future, also acknowledged in disguised form this kind of crisis will duplicate possibility.
But those rapidly-growing developing nations that will produce nearly all the growth in global carbon emissions in the decades ahead must do their part as well.
But understand this, that in the last days difficult times will come.
But we are being led to believe that unless we give Big Brother total power over people’s rights to have children, we will all be ankle deep in human beings within a decade.
But whatever the outcome, they say, employers should expect the agency to pay much closer attention to record-keeping in the months ahead.
But whatever ultimate answer for our moral questions might actually exist out there in the future of mankind, that answer will most likely be properly characterized as an objective moral rule (or rule set).
But when the time comes to update the code, you’d have to download the page, edit it over and upload back to the site.
But when the time comes, we have a lot of excuses.
But why should this consensus prediction of lower rates affect eurodollar futures with quarterly dates at least one and a half years in the future when rates are, in all probability, going to be higher than they are at the present time?
But will definitely be looking at it again in the future.
But with cement raising the possibilities of accomplishing some repairs in the future will not actually hassle you at all just simply because this procedure is confirmed by professionals to become a very very good technique to spare your dollars, time and endeavor with out diminishing the good good quality of function.
But within three months of its launch, Centron Solar is now history.
But yes obviously let us think about and as I look at the different clients that I work with, I pick pieces of information and put it in my blog or put it in my notes to think about that in the future but so often it is just a different circumstance.
But you can’t afford not to make them part of your network, if there’s a chance you might, within the next year or two, find yourself entering the phase euphemistically known as a "transition.
But you may be at higher risk in the future.
But your service, was “next to none” and we won’t hesitate to acquire your services along the way, but will need to be more careful, of what DVDs we order, in the future!
But, in the same way that Conde Nast is reserving the right to market Gourmet as a brand in the future, perhaps not as a magazine but for other food-related things, Ruth Reichl is also a brand.
But, it seems to me, there needs to be, I agree that you can’t depend only on an inside strategy, but an outside strategy without an inside strategy is, there isn’t going to be anybody in the room when the times comes to do the deal.
But, some of the work is in place to fix this in the future.
But, someone asked me one time if they would be able to make $10,000 a month online in 2 months with one of my products.
But, yeah, I can see that someday in the not so distant future someone will find a handwritten letter in their attic and have to find an expert somewhere to tell them what it says.
But,for the first time in eight years, you’re not with me on your birthday.
Butlast October, they buried a good deal of that negativity by bestowing the city of Philadelphia with it’s first major leaguesports title in 30 years.
Butt fled to Pakistan after the attack on Belayni but returned to France to hand himself in a year later.
Buyers now can expect to get their strata titles within 12 months instead of years as previously, he said, adding that he was confident the process could be further shortened to less than six months.
Buying a handgun is quite an important task for this fire arm may save your life someday, so the more attention you pay to it when purchasing the handgun, the greater the benefits will be.
By "compreshensive" I assume you mean "extremely buggy and not fixed in the 2 years since initially released"?
By October 1999, Sega of America announced that it had sold 518 000 consoles in 1 month in the US.
By agreeing to purchase at least 5 regular-priced movies in the next 24 months, you qualify to receive 3 Disney DVDs of your choice from the list of titles currently available from the Disney Movie Club for $.
By and large, dentists are quick in spotting mouth cancer and therefore it is advisable to consult a dentist once in two months.
By applying for membership at the Credit Union you grant the Credit Union a consensual security interest in all of your funds at any time on deposit with the Credit Union to secure all amounts that you may now or in the future owe to the Credit Union.
By building an endowment today, organization leaders and donors are helping to guarantee permanent financial resources for mission-related activities in the future.
By buying gear designed for women you’re not only investing in yourself, but also in the future generations of girls and women who will enter the sport.
By changing this one habit can help prevent unnecessary pain and discomfort in the future.
By choosing a home with the ENERGY STAR label, you can be confident that it will have an increasingly valued feature when the time comes to sell.
By contrast, estimated impacts on marriage are small and ambiguous, though modest changes in cohabitation in the predicted direction suggest that impact on family structure might become more apparent in the future.
By contrast, in the two years before the arrival of the Jones company, the veterans home was cited for only one violation of health rules, inspectors confirm.
By covering one item or overdraft we are not obligated to do so in the future, except as otherwise agreed in writing.
By having a set built to your exact playing specifications and allowing for adjustments you can work with the club fitter/maker now and in the future.
By knowing your approaching Pinnacle number you can better prepare yourself for the times ahead.
By law, the credit agency has to respond to your dispute within a 1 month time frame.
By registering to this site, you are under no obligation to buy anything, now or in the future.
By setting apart a particular time for meditation, a habit is formed, and, as the time comes round, the mind will after a while become trained, so that meditation at the particular time will become natural.
By setting up a Trust, you're able to receive your compensation and retain any means-tested benefits now and in the future.
By starting more generally, you'll get a big picture that can serve as a guide for your overall planning - not just how much you ought to make in this job, but how much you ought to be earning now and in the future.
By the end of the week, we will make concrete plans to do something else instead, and carry them out when the time comes.
By the time of Meet the Mummy, Abbott and Costello neared the end of their collaboration, and Costello would be dead within a few years.
By then I hope to be starting a new writing project, but let’s not look too far in the future, shall we?
By this time, she had already been in Hell 7 years and she could remember each moment of her life and death.
By using the Get Fit to Golf™ and Golf Pro Select web sites, you agree to be bound by the current Agreement and any changes made to this Agreement in the future, thus you should visit this page regularly to be up-to-date with the current Agreement to which you are bound.
Byckowski went on to coach Ontario to his second national championship in three years and third in three tries since 1992, as well as coaching Georgetown Eagles to the peewee title.
Byrd should see the field quite a bit this year and in the future as Scott Linehan uses the tight end in the passing game.
CAPITAL ENERGY was incorporated in Spain 6 years ago and has strong domestic and international presence.
CESU authorities are going to electrify the village in a month, said Nayak.
CLICK HERE NOW to Cure Acne within 2 Months!
CO2 will be the dominant anthropogenic climate forcing in the future.
CPC may become mandatory for PEs in the next 5 years or so.
CPR certification for infant, child, and adult, valid anytime within the 5 years (provide copy of front and back of CPR card) ONLINE CPR COURSE NOT ACCEPTED.
CPT will be held two times in a year: June and December.
CWT has been discussed in the larger context of farm policy reform, according to Galen, and is why NMPF’s “Foundation for the Future” proposal included a role for a voluntary CWT program in the future but “it will be a different role than what it’s been doing the past seven years so it’s a little bit soon to predict other than I do think that CWT will be different in the future than what it’s been since 2003.
Cables haven't changed that much in a hundred years and roads haven't changed all that much either.
Cadillac Williams was named the AP Offensive Rookie of the Year – receiving 47 of 50 first place votes – after running for 1,178 yards and six touchdowns on a Buccaneers team that returned to the playoffs for the first time in three years.
Cairns had its hottest October day in seven years yesterday, with the mercury hitting a maximum of 33.
Calcium supplementation is ineffective or minimally effective for prevention of bone loss in women within five years of menopause when there may be predominant effects of estrogen deficiency and other hormonal changes.
Call Center Markets Research estimates that in five years, 75 percent of offshore outsourcing in the Europe will come from the United Kingdom and that spending of offshore outsourcing operations will increase to more than 3 billion Euros by 2009 and that 76 percent of that figure will be coming from UK businesses.
Call me if the symptoms aren't relieved by the weekend, see me in a month… and Kristen?
Campaigns should be completed in 18 months.
Can anyone really speak for a locality that far in the future?
Can i upgrade the processor in the future?
Can their child go to a school that is going to teach them so that they can succeed in the future?
Can you easily find it in stores and expect to have them available in the future?
Can you imagine my astonishment when in a month I saw that his hair grows again!
Can you make this program separated from blender someday?
Can you name the seven players who have scored Premier League goals in three decades?
Can't wait for the time in 20 years when the two of them rule our worlds).
Cancelling Accounts in the future?
CarCostCanada makes no guarantees of similar savings in the future.
Carl's own face was broad and ordinary, though, and he had been "developed," as the antiseptic jargon had it, within a year of Virginia.
Carter’s research indicates that, without a vaccine in place, perhaps fully one third of the global population will contract swine flu in the next 12 months.
Cash and assets which will be turned into cash in the near future (typically within 1 year) as of the date of the most current financial information prior to the announcement of the transaction ($mil).
Cash and assets which will be turned into cash in the near future (typically within 1 year) at the end of the fiscal year 2 years prior to the announcement of the transaction ($mil).
Cash and assets which will be turned into cash in the near future (typically within 1 year) at the end of the fiscal year 3 years prior to the announcement of the transaction ($mil).
Cash and assets which will be turned into cash in the near future (typically within 1 year) at the end of the fiscal year 4 years prior to the announcement of the transaction ($mil).
Cash and assets which will be turned into cash in the near future (typically within 1 year) at the end of the fiscal year 5 years prior to the announcement of the transaction ($mil).
Cash and assets which will be turned into cash in the near future (typically within 1 year) at the end of the most recent fiscal year prior to the announcement of the transaction ($mil).
Cash and assets which will be turned into cash in the near future (typically within one year) at the end of the most recent interim period prior to the announcement of the transaction ($mil).
Cash and assets which will be turned into cash in the near future (typically within one year) at the end of the same interim period corresponding to CASSLQ, but in the previous fiscal year ($mil).
Catalog video metadata for easy retrieval in the future.
Catch it on TNT in two years…the commercial interruptions won’t make a difference.
Cell C reserves the right to cancel your cellphone number and deactivate your SIM card: if you have not connected to the Cell C network within six months of the date of purchase of your SIM card, or if you do not make a chargeable call, send a chargeable SMS, MMS or receive a call within 120 consecutive days.
Census Bureau is working for several years ahead to prepare the census in 2010.
Certifications usually takes less time than you may think - within the next year or so your work could very well be.
Chances are you will probably change it in ten years.
Chapters are urged to send more than one representative – particularly, current (2010) and incoming (2011) presidents – to this important leadership training conference, as staff and other experts will provide assistance with planning/program ideas for the upcoming year.
Charlotte Russe rolled out the new point-of-sale system within four months.
Chat about guns, shooting, what to do, where to go, or what is happening in the future.
Cheap as you plan to download other movies (as many movies as you want in the future), convenient as you can download all movies in one place (no more searching) and burn them to DVD (watch whenever you want), fast as you only need 5 minutes for a download to finish, safe as you don’t risk your computer for viruses and software threat, and legal as you don’t get the free stuffs.
Check back at some variable time in the future for more Studio Updates from Bizarre Creations!
Checkout our demo and see why over a million people a year come to Comedy Defensive Driving for their driving safety needs.
Chief Minister Datuk Seri Musa Aman regards the 10MP as inclusive, it having taken into consideration current needs and the challenges to be faced, particularly in the next five years.
Childhood happens only in a few years so give her a Dora the explorer party supply for her birthday party and see how it will bring her joy.
Children are the seed for peace or violence in the future, depending on how they are cared for and stimulated.
Children who are genuinely scared of horror movies and eyeball grapes will avoid them in the future.
China alone graduates almost as many engineers in a month as we do in a year.
China has ratified the treaty and is expected to sunset its exempt within the next decade.
China may spend about 5 trillion yuan ($738 billion) in the next decade developing cleaner sources of energy to reduce emissions from burning oil and coal, a government official said.
China said this week that output grew at the slowest pace in 11 months.
China’s government claims its one-child policy has successfully reined in the country’s population, but it has also led to the disappearance of millions of baby girls in the 30 years since it was introduced.
Chong said that because of his many accomplishments in the two years since assuming office, he remains.
Chow, a part time jockey, had just 2 fights worth of experience going in, both losses, and he had not fought in three years.
Chris will be the teacher that many students here at HLHS will remember in the future as the one that made a difference.
Chris, thanx for the heads-up, didn't by any means intend to be offensive, and I will try to do better in the future.
Christmas 1999: A frightened Toys "R" Us, America's premier retailer of toys, watches in horror as customers defect to tiny eToys, which in six months has blossomed into a serious rival, threatening both revenue and market share.
Chuck found a job at a garage in Wheaton, Illinois; he would own his own garage in Carol Stream within a few years.
Chugach has locked up its gas supplies for the short term but it will need more gas for its power plants within several years.
City officials are hoping things will look better in four months.
Claims by the world’s leading climate scientists that most of the Himalayan glaciers will vanish within 25 years were last night exposed as nonsense.
Claims to have had 17 jobs in one year.
Clara Harris, a Texas woman who was convicted of murdering her husband in March, was just granted joint custody of her twin five year-old boys.
Clark said in a few months officials from China will be at the shop to take a took at the completed truck.
Clarke tempers his tendency to overstatement without relinquishing his presence and power; Hiromi proves a splendid team player, sticking to acoustic piano and tackling more mainstream fare ("Solar," "Someday My Prince Will Come"), while White's empathy and musicality come through time and again.
Clearly, all of these expressions refer to the same blessing to be obtained in the future when Christ comes again.
Clemmons News was the second accused murderer of police caught by Seattle Police in a month.
Clerk Craig commented for the next Village Clerk that in the future when paperwork is submitted to the Board, that it have all signatures.
Cleve Eaton is a recognized name in the jazz world, as a producer, composer, arranger and for his incredible performances with the Ike Cole Trio, Donald Byrd - Peppe Adams Quintet, the Larry Novak Trio and over 30 recordings in the 10 years with the Ramsey Lewis Trio, which included 4 gold singles, such as "Hang On Sloopy" and "Wade In The Water".
Climate Change: Last summer Europe's hottest in 500 years?
ClimateProgress  and The Wonk Room  report that NAM ironically has made a strong case for climate legislation, finding that it would create 20 million jobs in the next two decades.
Clinton responded by arranging "the largest purchase of military helicopters by the Israeli Air Force in a decade" (as reported in Ha'aretz), along with spare parts for Apache attack helicopters.
Clouds can also sometimes come at the perfect time to help shade your subject.
Co-Founder & CTO, Rajnish Kumar, added - "Our users can track airfares on any given route over any period within the next 12 months.
Coincidentally, 2 other Nobel Prize winners were born within a month of Einstein: Otto Hahn  , the father of nuclear chemistry, and Owen Willans Richardson  , who also studied the photoelectric effect and explained the sea of electrons in metals.
Colin Cowherd stated on ESPN Radio Monday that the Saints would be in Los Angeles within two years and that arguing anything differently wasn't worth the time.
Colin: The truth of the matter is the United States’ top climate scientist is telling us that if we don’t stop burning coal to produce electricity in the next 18 years we’ll have irreversibly altered the planet’s ability to support human life.
Colleague Carl Scovel writes: “All he did [in five years] was establish a Unitarian church—a national church—which.
Collectively, they put together a 7-figure online empire in under 1 year.
Collectors buy them instantly and you could be stuck with a rare toy with little demand in the future.
College Degree in 1 Year (/site/redirp.
Come back in a month for a refresher.
Come back to me in ten thousand years, and I will acknowledge that you then pretty much understand the subject!
Coming from the Objective-C book would it be difficult/beneficial to begin learning C, not only for the physics engine but for anything in the future I may pursue?
Comment: Long time coming!
Comments:As a one year comeback player I'm delighted each time I play the Recording Cornet I won on EBay.
Comments:Have not played in 50 years!
Commissioner Scott O'Malia speaks on CFTC priorities and what’s to come in the upcoming year.
Commit to double cycle use within ten years, making cycling mainstream in the longer term.
Commonwealths like Virginia relied with confidence upon that popular fundamental right implied for future exercise, without the shadow of a written suggestion in the State instrument itself as to how practically it should in the future be amended.
Companies sometimes come into favor, and sometimes they go out of favor.
Companies that invest in the future and that make smart decisions during a recession outperform their timid competitors after the economy improves.
Compare it to a current photo - hasn't changed much in 121 years, has it?
Competitive Advantages: Asian reserves are a plus, as Asia will be a key energy demand center in the years ahead.
Complaints of failure to receive certified records will be honored within 6 months of the original request.
Complete understanding will help friendships and family reunions stay pleasant in the future.
Completed within a month, the entire bathroom remodel cost just under $14,000.
Completed within one year may request a complete and practical train (OPT) work up to 12 months at Highline Community College City Seattle, Washington, USA.
Computers have come a long way in ten years.
Concern about having enough drinking and crop-growing water may also triggersome very large-scale wars in the future.
Congrats Isaac, hope i win someday!
Congrats on being the second person Ive ever put on ignore in 4 years.
Congres' Mondial in Canada six years ago.
Congressman Glenn Nye says that Congress will continue to work with DoD to ensure that the program is available to all military spouses in the future.
Consequently, although our basic freedoms sometimes come under attack, the ideal Milton espoused is reiterated by those who counter-attack.
Consequently, in the months ahead, she will play a key role in shaping legislation on energy reform and climate change as well as federal government incentive programs.
Consider the father’s income and the likelihood that it will improve in the future.
Considering my rather limited political credentials, within one month, I had performed superbly.
Construction firm Tarmac is planning to extend its activities in the area as supplies from existing reserves are expected to run out within three years.
Construction is expected to begin within the next 12 months for operation within three years.
Construction is expected to start within a month, and the plant is expected to be operational by the end of the year.
Construction is slated to begin by July 1, 2009 and be completed in a year.
Consultants with the most experience in the field of nonprofit grants will be most valuable for your organization to work with, as you make plans for new programs and facilities that you would like to offer in the future.
Contact Lenses Canada  - Win Free Contact Lenses offers an opportunity to win a year supply of contact lenses including disposables, colored, daily, and soft contacts.
Conversely, if you are paying that same loan off in 48 months with an 8% APR (javascript:openGlossWin('annual_percentage_rate');) vs.
Convertibility allows you to change your ARM to a fixed-rate loan at some designated time in the future.
Corbin McNeill: There, there, there is, but I am going to bet you that you are going to run out of places to put windmills in within 10 years.
Could get a shot in the middle in a few years as with Witherspoon's athleticism and versatility they have the positional flexibility to move him back to his more natural WLB role.
Council is expected to award the construction contract within the next month, and the Resort Municipality of Whistler has budgeted $1.
Councilor Fujita recently published a book on 9/11, and his party was just elected into power for the first time in 56 years.
Counting up all my required course hours, I figured out that in my four years of college, I would spend more than one year, total, taking classes in subjects I wouldn't have chosen on my own.
Country Crossing and our affiliates may use this information to contact you in the future to tell you about products or services we believe will be of interest to you.
Court serves on the Interim committee for Long Term Fiscal Stability and will be talking about that committee's efforts to deal with the State's fiscal health now and in the future.
Coverage/Restrictions: In one year, she and her husband have paid $55,000 in out-of-pocket costs related to her artificial leg.
Covering 10,000 kms in a month, on the average, is routine for him.
Craig discusses how the Internet has changed over the past year and breaks out the crystal ball to predict what might happen in the year ahead.
Crandall adds that he is done with this sort of employee now for all time, that he now has a man in the place of every one of the eight or ten who have been with him up to yesterday, and that he had competent watchmen who will prevent any bomb work in the future.
Create and then confirm the password you will use when you visit this store in the future.
Creating an account will make it quicker and easier to register for events in the future.
Creature From the Black Lagoon exists in a dual projector format but wasn’t available for this fest, and Goldstein hopes to program it in the future.
Credit can be an important indicator of financial responsibility and WILL enable you to obtain credit more easily in the future.
Credit for attending events in areas other than substantive lawis limited to 10 hours in any five year period.
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year Also referred to as Total Current Liabilities, being the sum of Trade Creditors, Bank Overdraft and Miscellaneous Current Liabilities.
Curious, I followed the link and found on the other side a terrific web site that I can see myself using a lot in the future!
Curled up in a nasty, dirty ball of old white fur at one side of the double doors of the back end of the building was one of the sorriest-looking dogs I’d seen in my 51 years on this planet.
Currencies should in the next few years be looked upon as a necessary evil and not as a store of value.
Current assets of the target company, including cash, and assets which will be turned into cash in the near future (typically within one year) as of the date of the most current financial information prior to the announcement of the transaction stated in millions in the currency of the target company's nation.
Currently our equipment is in "fair" to "good" condition; we strive to properly maintain this equipment and to plan for the replacement of this equipment in the future.
Currently they call it "Seafood Sauce" and sell it only in the Brevard County Publix stores in the seafood department, but they said it would be in all the Florida Publix stores with the name "Vegetable Sauce" in the produce department within the next 3 months.
Currently this limit is 63characters, but may be extended in the future.
Currently two kinds of compositing are defined (RasterOp and alpha-based), but more may be added in the future.
Currently, there has been no backlash for using Firefox scripts related to FarmVille, but this may cause problems with Zynga in the future.
Customers like your products now, and they will surely want to know about the products you add in the future.
Customers who will very likely buy another boat in the future.
Cyprus, an already established global tourism destination particularly for Europeans from England, Russia and Northern Europe, now has other prospects to look forward to in the years ahead.
D(which he should try to get in the future, but he is probably extremely busy in other courses currently) he still has alot of the same knowledge someone with a Ph.
D, earns his living by giving chess lessons, and he is America's first new GM in 10 years.
DATING - the process of spending enormous amounts of money, time, and energy to get better acquainted with a person whom you don't especially like in the present and will learn to like a lot less in the future.
DCMI has developed or is developing guidelines for encoding DCAM-based metadata in HTML/XHTML, XML, and RDF/XML; others could be added in the future.
DHS articulated the urgent need and described it as an important national goal, sponsored challenges, workshops, “Industry Days”, and meetings, and was able to acquire the solution in 16 months.
DNDS-933 - dawn's babysitting melora's baby ivy  while rasputina  play's a gig in toledo, we're catching up after a few days, talking about the road, the documentary  , our archives  , and our sponsors  , as we get excited to see each other again after the longest time apart in 15 years.
DOWN PAYABLE IN 18 MONTHS 17,889.
DOWN PAYABLE IN 18 MONTHS 22,163.
DOWN PAYABLE IN 4 MONTHS.
DOWNPAYMENT PAYABLE IN 4 MONTHS 106,405.
Daddy would show me the photos and tell me stories about the legendary great-whites and how he hoped to take me there someday.
Dale Smallin a year later produced Wipeout and Surfer Joe for The Safari's and is the man who did the laugh at the beginning of Wipeout.
Dan and I compare and contrast Lagavulin 16 year old Single Malt and a Glenmorangie 10 year old.
Danish researchers will potentially be able to make organ donating superfluous in the future, following their development of new technology using stem cells.
Data Retention At Bronto  With a new year comes the promise of new beginnings.
Datex-Ohmeda has also identified the entire population of AGSS units that may have been assembled incorrectly, has identified the location of the entire suspect population, and has begun an active Field Action to check the AGSS units, verify their proper manufacture and assure that any occlusion of the AGSS exhaust hoses will not produce a rise in the system airway pressure in the future.
David Glover, Channel 4 commissioning editor, said: “It is decades ahead of their time.
David Moncoutie slips out of the breakaway, giving France is first stage win of the 2005 tour, giving France a French victory from a French team on Bastille Day, giving France another cold mug of denial to help kill the pain of having not won their own tour in 20 years.
David, Your situation is fairly complicated and requires a professional tax advisor and/or financial planner – someone who can dig into your books, run some numbers, and come up with a plan to help you both now and in the future.
David/Darryl wasn't eight or nine inches in a million years.
DeVere Construction feels that they are the local source to help correct issues in the future.
Decals for the upcoming year may go on sale prior to June 15th.
Decisions now will decide if you have stormy seas or smooth sailing in the months ahead.
Decline magazine has been available in digital format for over a year now and will continue to integrate with more web-friendly features in the future.
Decry reason, never say anything and be sure to say it in the most words possible, and someday, you too can hold your Pulitzer above your head and thank the little people who made it all possible.
Demolition in the future is done using the UFO punching method.
Department of Labor for $444 million in stimulus so long as the benefits are effective within one year of the enactment date of the legislation.
Dependent on the course load, the major coursework could be completed in 18 months.
Depending on funding, Obara said, a move likely would occur within a year or two.
Deravian notes that she, her husband, and her extended family have had frank discussions about how they will accommodate her mom in the future–discussions that her mom has also participated in.
Description: Millions of people take advantage of payday loans each year across the country - but are they setting themselves up for financial problems in the future?
Design to be completed in one month from start date.
Designed for anyone interested in the future of the Hill Country, the forum will help land owners, Hill Country residents and urban and rural conservationists better understand the history and dynamics of the region, as well as the choices and events that are irrevocably shaping its future.
Designing and managing portfolios, as a result, will become more challenging in the years ahead.
Designing cross-stitch has always been a part-time profession for me (though I’d love to make it my full-time career someday); my current full-time job is as an executive assistant for a local credit union.
Despite his physical appearance well suited for an ‘upper-middle-class-metropolitan-lad’, he essays the role with understanding which makes him recognizable as promising to succeed in the future.
Despite the challenging winter weather and architectural changes, we were able to complete this facility in 18 months.
Despite the many ways the gesture's intention can be speculated, the fact of the matter is a donation of this enormity from his personal wealth to bail out an ailing school system- ultimately benefits countless children now and in the future.
Destruction caused by a beaver is typically because of them gnawing down trees to create dams, but trees in the surrounding areas could also become hurt and in the future die as well.
Development in 5 Years Would be Affectedby (/journal/2009/3/25/development-in-5-years-would-be-affected-by.
Devisara Wali's husband, Suresh, was last seen in the district police office in Bardiya eight years ago.
Diffuse Hair Loss decreases the hair loss by 20% during 14 days period and by 70% in 6 month period.
Disadvantages; Not as cool as a high tech overdesigned gadgety device you spent way too much money that will be obsolete in 14 months anyways.
Disagreements over the bill were worked out in two years of intensebehind-the-scenes negotiations that included members of both partiesand people with disabilities, as well as the National Association ofManufacturers and the United States Chamber of Commerce.
Disappointed, we withdrew the production and hope to revisit it in a year or so.
Disclaimer: This contest has ended, do check back in the future for other contests!
Disclosing only that adolescents on Zyprexa had acute weight gain—averaging 13% increase in body weight in one year—which they acknowledge may pose a long-term risk for “metabolic syndrome.
Discount Upsell-If you're selling a product people may order again in the future like shave gel, you could offer them a second can of shave gel at a discount.
Discover Card hasn’t heard from you in six months and has given up on collecting this debt from you.
Discovering the good moneylending or I need a loan, involves balancing your loan choices and your home requirements, at the moment and furthermore in the future.
Discovering the physical basis of autism should someday allow us to better identify, treat, and possibly prevent it.
Discovery missions will in the future be cost- capped at $425M.
Disentangling the connections between orgasm, reproduction and love may someday yield better medications and psychotherapies for sexual problems.
Disney Movie Club: As a Disney Movie Club member, all you need to do is buy 5 movies at regular Club prices in the next 24 months (starting at $19.
Dittersdorf wrote his violin concerto four years before the venerable publishing house opened its doors in 1770.
Dividend Rate: If a company's board has committed to dividend payments in the future, the latest reported dividend rate equals the number of times the company pays dividends per year times the latest dividend, expressed in dollars.
Do I think universities should make students graduate within 5 years?
Do You Think Universities Should Make Students Graduate Within 5 Years?
Do not ask will be friend or not in the future.
Do not doubt that we are close by, millions and millions of us, but of course not all of us will land on your planet when the time comes for that.
Do this at least a month ahead of time, and remind them again at two weeks prior.
Do you have a personal holy grail game which may or may not become yours in the future?
Do you honestly think that after an incredible year they would change there mind in 1 months time?
Do you plan to visit the country of expertise within the next year?
Do you see certification becoming mandatory in the future?
Do you think it will be obsolete in 10 years' time?
Do you think its possible to do something like 2 million in 4 years, so that when I graduate I will have enough money to use to make more money with?
Do you want them to link to you in the future?
Does harmonization mean we'll all be riding homogenized motorcycles in the future, wherein one manufacturer's prod- uct will look, sound and perform very much like the other?
Does the Pentagon have a surface-to-air missile system that could avert similar catastrophes in the future?
Does the White House think that Bin Laden will be captured in the next three years?
Does your loan first adjust in 1 month, 1, 3, 5, or 7 years?
Doing a bit of digging, it is difficult to come up with any actual evidence of Haleron as a company, and although I’m seeing a lot of mentions of kit that the company have released over the past few months or are planning to release in the future, I’ve yet to find a review of any of their actual hardware, or even a post from a satisfied customer.
Doing everything myself, including Mark’s "jobs" (taking out the trash, doing the dishes), and with no one else here to help entertain a 2 year old.
Doing so will save you many hours of time and frustration  in the future.
Doing the whole shooting match representing someone can concern that person to shamble all to you or agent you to resent that man in the future.
Doing your homework now could save you money and headaches in the future.
Don't ask what you want to achieve next week or even in the next 6 months.
Don't forget what you may want to do in the future too.
Don't hold onto it, hoping someday you will find a use for it.
Don't miss out on any of the exclusive hotties in this month's issue, or in the future!
Don't rush any part of the process as this may lead to you missing small details that could cause problems in the future.
Don’t even think about technical constraints at this point and don’t be afraid to plan for needs a year or two in the future.
Don’t look too far in the future but don’t ignore it either.
Double Your Income in 12 Months or Less: Using Creative Real Estate Investing Strategies - 34.
Doubtless the time will come when men shall see Christ also as he is.
Dow Balliett and it was helped along in the 30s by Florence Campbell, and within the next few decades a wealth of literature was available to the public.
Dr Duffour said oil and gas development projects, private sector development and the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) sub-sectors were the other areas that the document had earmarked to drive growth and create significant employment in the next three years.
Drawing from the technological breakthroughs of the past 10 or 20 years, researchers are likely to develop methods to considerably delay human aging within the next few decades.
Dream Board-How Does It Influence Our Vision of Life In the Future?
Dreaming of being an aicraft industry owner in the future?
Due from group, current Amounts due from other group companies or associated companies that appear to be receivable within one year.
Due to directors Directors loans due in one year.
Due to group, current Loans due to group companies due in one year.
Due to new funding requirements, the state must update its master rail plan for the first time in 30 years.
Due to security regulations, only web-based Intranet solutions would be allowed in the future.
Duffek stated that technology is going to change between now and then and when the time comes the City can set the conditions for the water quality.
Duke lost two in a row and sat at 18-4 in a year when most fans figured they'd be 12-10 by this point.
During 2005, Symantec documented an average of 25 new viruses per day, a 143% increase within 12 months.
During his tenure, he led the court to its lowest inventory in 28 years, with the shortest time elapsing between case assignment and opinion filing in its history.
During the hottest summer months, California uses about 50,000 megawatts, he said, and the CEC is permitting 5,000 megawatts of solar energy in the next two months.
During the year, students are visited by an AFL SportsReady Field Consultant to ensure that the program is continuing to benefit them and that they are learning skills that will make them a valuable employee in the future.
EPI was confirmed in all subjects by a CFA of <70% without pancreatic enzyme supplementation or pancreatic elastase <50 μg/gram stool within 12 months prior to start of study.
ETIC has concluded that JAL can revive itself within three years, and has presented four scenarios to JAL and its lenders based on out-of-court restructuring that include more than Y250 billion worth of debt waivers, the report said.
EUGENE SHOEMAKER: "Yes, there very definitely is a chance that a 10 km asteroid will collide with the earth in the future.
Each day after that, sidereal time gets later than solar time by four more minutes, making a complete cycle in a year.
Each member shall redeem the holdings of its currency apportioned to other members under 2 (c) above, and shall agree with the Fund within three months after a decision to liquidate upon an orderly procedure for such redemption.
Each such report shall cover and include: The extent to which the Fund and the Bank have achieved the purposes for which they were established; the extent to which the operations and policies of the Fund and the Bank have adhered to, or departed from, the general policy directives formulated by the Council, and the Council's recommendations in connection therewith; the extent to which the operations and policies of the Fund and the Bank have been coordinated, and the Council's recommendations in connection therewith; recommendations on whether the resources of the Fund and the Bank should be increased or decreased; recommendations as to how the Fund and the Bank may be made more effective; recommendations on any other necessary or desirable changes in the Articles of Agreement of the Fund and of the Bank or in this Act; and an over-all appraisal of the extent to which the operations and policies of the Fund and the Bank have served, and in the future may be expected to serve, the interests of the United States and the world in promoting sound international economic cooperation and furthering world security.
Each time I come across a new one I start off thinking, "Ho-hum, here we go again," and then find myself caught up in it—looking forward to the latest rendition of each of the well-known scenes: Pip meeting the convict in the graveyard, his first visit to Miss Havisham's, his unrequited courtship of Estella, his discovery of the truth about his benefactor.
Each time I come up with a title I rediscover a song I love.
Each year, thousands of DeVry University graduates have careers in their chosen fields in 6 months or less.
Early closure fee of $500 may apply if loan is closed within two years of origination date.
Earn your AS, BS, or MS degree online in 1 year - Start Now.
Earnout is an amount to be paid in the future, over time, if the target company meets certain financial performance criteria.
Easier to Opt for Solar or Wind In the future, Cargill may choose to run its generators more often and sell power back to the utility when prices are high, says PowerSecure CEO Sidney Hinton.
Eastern Michigan’s AD Derrick Gragg let it slip today that he thinks  “the MAC is going totry to extend invitations to one or two institutions in the next year or two”…but then wussed out and didn’t say to who.
Ebook may have lots of competition in the area of Unless you want to miss out on the most exciting information about short Term Memory in a Decade!
Economically, note the current inflation rate in America then check back in two years after Obama spends all that money we do not have.
Eddie Levert has experienced great losses in his life--namely two songs Gerald and Sean within a year of each other.
Educate yourself and learn to make the smart choices that will help improve our air quality today, tomorrow and in the future.
Educating California's students is an essential investment in the future viability of our state.
Education: All educational groupings (with the exception of Master’s and PhD level) in the 18-24 year old age group have higher numbers of individuals answering positively to the question, “Do you expect to start a business in the next few years?
Effective sales management not only will reward the owners, now and in the future, but also will assist non-owner producers in achieving their goals.
Ehrlich said “volumes might dip a little” in 2009, but he still expects a 50 percent to 80 percent jump in DARTS in the next 12 months.
Either now or in the future.
Either way, interesting and exciting times are ahead!
Elbow injury in a 6 year old?
Elder Alexis (Mechev) of Moscow (+1922): "When the time comes, God will send the necessary people, who will do this work [the salvation of Russia] and will annihilate the Bolsheviks in the same way that a storm breaks the wood of a mast.
Eldridge, president of Summit Bank, called the appointment of the EDCCC a “historic opportunity” to “make investments in Clark County that will pay dividends in the future.
Elections must take place within 7 months of the start of the implementation of 435.
Electricity and roads to property with water delivered to property within 6 months of closing, GUARANTEED !
Eli Lilly is in Phase III of its FM trials and is expected to submit a supplementary new drug application (sNDA) to the FDA for approval of Cymbalta for FM within the next 12 months.
Eligible candidates for the academy must be a minimum of 21 years old, live or work in the City of Rancho Cordova, have NO prior felony convictions and NO misdemeanor arrests within one year of application.
Ellwood: To ask the Secretary of State for International Development, what plans he has for the funding and operation of the Park for Women in Lashkar Gah, Helmand province in the next 12 months.
Elsewhere, other companies in Singapore are also forecasting solid to positive headcount growth in the next three months with the survey recording a seasonally adjusted net employment outlook of +21%.
Endowed with the ability to traverse the Faerie world, the story tells of his experiences there, until the time comes for him to pass the gift onto another.
Enter the Chinese market 10 years of sports fabric Gore company in Germany to judge people, in five years, China outdoor products industry for more than 50% growth rate will not change.
Entrepreneurs have used hypothermic arrest to support the idea that dead bodies can be frozen to prevent disintegration, then revived at some time in the future and restored to health after their cause of death has been cured.
Eric: They almost blew it against Jimmy Young because Young showed up in shape for the first time in several years.
Errors called to the publisher's attention will be corrected in the future.
Especially if you have a number of cats in your house, they’ll actually shed some hair a number of times in a year, which will cause your sofa [.
Especially since the increasing debt of government is making increasing rates in the future to pay for the high spending today more and more likely.
Esu Immanuel Sananda(Jesus) said that he would return in 2000 years with the Truth.
Europe is decades ahead of our greed and opulent ways.
Europe is years ahead of the U.
Even after good monsoon, growing paddy / pulses hardly helps us to earn in a year.
Even as a youth, he would speak of his desire to someday “adopt a girl and a boy from every country in the world.
Even as the father lays down the law, he knows that someday his children will break it as they need to break it if ever they're to find something better than law to replace it.
Even if Pemex can enlist deep-sea partners - and Energy Minister Fernando Elizondo has said he will push for a change in the law in the months ahead - it would be five to seven years before it could draw any oil from the new fields, analysts say.
Even if political instability is to return in the future, chances of a reversal in economic policy are next to nil.
Even if someday there could be with you in some way, I would thank you for reminding me that I have many things to give to someone.
Even if you are not looking to purchase a home or a car in the next few years, these are not the only people that may look at your credit report.
Even if you don't answer questions in a month, you will see the amount of money you could have earned, posted in the experts area.
Even more ARMs are set to adjust in the next year – which will prove to be bad news for a significant number of homeowners.
Even the empirical data reported by proponents of Proposition 227 confirm that very few students are attaining proficiency in English sufficient to keep up in school in one year.
Even though I haven’t seen her in a few years I still think about her often.
Even though one can sympathize with the paucity of information about how programs were evaluated, the fact that there are occasional reports of respect-worthy research, complete with control groups (for example, regarding the effectiveness of community work in Rwanda when groups were run by seminar-trained facilitators as compared to untrained facilitators) suggests that in the future more outcome research could be done, and that it would serve to sharpen our understanding of how to help.
Even though the Adairsville Depot will cease to serve as a visitor center in the future, the building will remain open to the public since it also is home to the Adairsville Rail Depot Age of Steam Museum.
Even to this day, I haven't visited him in several years.
Even with a new resolve to become debt free, people often find themselves in the same mess or worse in six months or less.
Even you already worked, you cannot avoid that you will need more money someday and you can apply for a loan to get more money quickly.
Even іf whаt іf time comes thаt уου јυѕt dο nοt hаνе even a single dime аt аll?
Eventually the time will come when you are in need of a used car, and you are faced with two alternatives: You can fight through L.
Eventually this should all reflect on our US Dollar in the future.
Eventually, you will be able to come and visit her someday.
Every available resource should be focused on emergency care for now—but a deeper test of our concern will come over months ahead.
Every foreign company shall, within one month after it establishes a place of business or commences to carry on business within Malaysia, lodge with the ROC for registration, notice of the situation of its registered office in Malaysia in the prescribed form.
Every one must be prepared for the worse and start thinking of tightening their belts when that time comes.
Every time I come across a good idea or see something that is working for a club I ask them to "write it up for the Newsletter.
Every time I come to Chicago I say the same thing--it's my favorite downtown on the planet (well, maybe tied with the very different Paris).
Every time we come to that one scene, … that nude part,… the leading man will be feeling me up.
Everybody likes to believe that in the future; they are going to own their very own home somewhere scenic and peaceful.
Everyone had a wonderful time and there are rumors of the possibility of another World Center trip in a few years.
Everyone worked together on this mission, i hope this will help us again in the future to bipass the death we tread so near countless times.
Everything else in my 45 years of shooting required some tinkering , be it Remington ,Winchester , Ruger or Marlin.
Everything is very modular, if a switch fails someday - simply disconnect it and plug-in a new one.
Everywhere we go and we look forward to being with you again someday.
Evidently the behavior of our politicians has changed little in 150 years.
Evil or Very Mad), I am glad that your are worried about my time constraints and my quality of life, but 7 escort meetings in one year leave more than 350 days in a year to do other things and for instance earn some money to be able to pay for these meetings.
Exactly and in fact Jenny went further than that last week by saying that by racing Caster she was pushed to her fastest time ever and hopes to do the same in the future.
Examinee with any graduate’s Degree of min 3 years duration after 10+2 stream, in any discipline from any recognized University with a min of 50% marks in aggregate of whole disciplines, containing languages are qualified to apply for K-MAT.
Example: 30–year fixed program will result in a monthly P&I of $591.
Except for a few of us who attended SVA, I have not been in touch with anyone from A & D in 27 years and would love to hear from any of my old friends.
Excessive noise or complaints from residents adjacent to the park may result in loss of deposit and forfeit the opportunity to reserve the facility in the future.
Excise Taxes are selective sales tax that is a state tax levies against certain and specific items such as what we refer to as “Sin Taxes” on such goods as tobacco, alcoholic beverages, and possibly in the future marijuana.
Executives in the future must learn to lose a little bit oft the luster and be willing to shed their super hero image.
Expect big things from it in the future.
Expect to learn more about how you can prepare for the months ahead.
Experience is necessary although training is available for added duties in the future.
Explorer Post 783 also serves to promote the agency and provide a limited knowledge on the agency and its operations for those aspiring to become law enforcement professionals or obtain positions, both sworn and non-sworn, within the agency in the future.
Expressing ideas in the future will just as likely involve creating a simulation as writing an expository essay.
FDA Approval Decisions Report - Tracks drugs with expected FDA approval decision dates (commonly known as PDUFA dates) in the next three months and uses Revere content to highlight their likelihood of approval and competitive landscape.
Factors that will make a court think that two parents cannot cooperate in the future are evidence of child abuse, interspousal battery, and domestic abuse.
Failure to do so may decrease the effectiveness of this treatment and may increase the risk that the bacteria will no longer be sensitive to Raniclor and it will not be able to be treated by this or certain other antibiotics in the future.
Failure to do so may decrease the effectiveness of this treatment and may increase the risk that the bacteria will no longer be sensitive to Vantin and it will not be able to be treated by this or certain other antibiotics in the future.
Failure to substantially complete the development or any development stage within three years of the approved development schedule shall cause the un-built portion of the development approval to expire.
Faithfulness, then, in the use of what we have now is the rule of promotion when the time comes to “give to every man according to his works.
Famed Female Group Releases First Recording in 13 Years (?
Fans of the series may someday wish to travel to these locations to see for themselves where their favorite shots were conducted.
Fantastic composer and energetic singer-dancer, he has been awarded more than 15 times in 2 years and Golden Boy (Fospassin) receives more than 15000 weekly radio airplay reports worldwide.
Fashion marketing is about combining advertising, design, business administration and an understanding of how the fashion world functions and what is going to be fashionable in the future based on current fashions and pop culture.
Feast your eyes on these goodies because in the next months we won’t be seeing too much of her hotness.
Feb 9th – Flying into the Unknown – Surviving and Thriving in a Decade of Turbulence Breakfast Seminar 8.
Feel free to bookmark the ones you would like to use in the future.
Felix Faure has decided that, for the first time in six years, he will exert a forgotten prerogative granted to the President of the Republic, and preside at the meeting of the Supreme Military Council, to be held on March 20th.
Fellow Internet denizens, I will be away on vacation with the family for the next week or so, and for the first time in 15 years attempting to be “off the grid.
Femara is also approved for the extended adjuvant treatment of early stage breast cancer in postmenopausal women who are within three months of completion of five years of tamoxifen therapy.
Fewer, but marginally stronger, hurricanes expected in the future.
Fields that are not denoted by a * are optional, although filling them in will make it more convenient for you when you post ads in the future, as this information will be automatically filled into the ad posting form for you.
Fifty two pounds in six months!
Fifty-three percent of those polled said they expected a cutback within the next six months; 87% said they're already weathering the pinch.
Figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics back up this bleak picture, with the number of families struggling with higher mortgage repayments having almost doubled in five years.
Finally I decided to do that as I have uploaded more than 60 thesis tutorial videos in a month on Youtube.
Finally, I hear this news that the rogue gene which is responsible for myopia has been found and the cure is possible, that too hopefully in next ten years.
Finally, I managed to participate in a monthly challenge again.
Finally, I'd like to remind you of my upcoming monthly Internet chat on Tuesday, January 12 at 6pm PT.
Finally, the two authors predict that “Virtual higher education will, in the future, formulate a global consortium of academia and higher learning in cyberspace as a mega-university, above or beyond the existing universities” (p.
Finally, there’s the matter of whether the Taliban was acting in good faith or would do so in the future: Did they know where bin Laden was and would they have delivered him if they did?
Finally, we will attempt to assess how this project has affected language teaching for the faculty currently involved and predict where the project will go in the future.
Finally, you need to consider how long you have been with your employer and whether or not you expect to stay employed with your current employer or change jobs in the future.
Finally… A Legitimate “Work Smart – Not Hard” System To Quickly, Easily and Safely Earn Enough Money Online To Replace Your Job In 3 Months or Less — Starting From Scratch With NO Special Skills… NO Extra Money… and NO Internet Marketing Experience Whatsoever!
Find a lower advertised price from| another online site or a local retailer within 1 Year from the date of your purchase for the same product / service / workmanship, and we'll gladly refund 100% of the difference.
Find out how much water the Smith family used in one month.
Find ways to reward loyal customers and be more involved in the community -- it sends the message that your company is listening and is investing in the future.
Finding out the suitable lending or I need a quick loan, entails balancing your mortgage preferences with your housing demands, at present and in the future.
Findings suggest that although most of the immediate impacts of the curriculum fade within 4 years after the curriculum, students who received "Connections" showed an increase in self-esteem, a decrease in dating and relationship violence, and an increase in family cohesion over 4 years.
Fine Returns from Fine Wines; We aim to double investors money in 5 years by investing predominantly in Bordeaux Wines.
Finish in 16 Months.
Finished Irvingia 10 days ago and will have tests redone in 6 months to see what changes, if anything.
Fioravanti responded that in the future if the City allows a street, they are keeping their options open.
Firefox has come a long way in five years and has really given Microsoft a run for its money in the web browser space.
First GIV Flew Three Months Ahead Of Schedule Gulfstream Aerospace recognized the 25th anniversary of the first flight of the Gulfstream IV on Sunday.
First dance at my wedding in one month.
First discussions in nine years come after election of Taiwan's new president.
First of all whatever you want to achieve, write down your goals that you want to reach in one year or five or more years doesn't really matter.
First published in 1970, this was first all inclusive treatment in 50 years of the Spanish Borderlands.
First snowfall of year comes to Glacier National Park (/Montana-Matters/First-snowfall-of-year-comes-to-Glacier-National-Park-605?
First time in 20 years that we have all lived in the same place.
First to import Poll Dorset genetics from England in 50 years!
First, you need to take a step back, think about what you want in your life, what you want to achieve and where you want to be in 1 year, 2 years or 3 years time.
Five addicts returning within six months all relapsed compared to none of the five who were in rehab 12 months or more before returning to practice.
Five is what I am told by those above who are interested in our intelligent being surviving to assist in the future in this universe.
Five requests from the same individual in two months (This is against Twitters Terms of Service – Rules: Spam  ), but the real kicker is every time I go to decline the request the individual has ALREADY stopped following me and the request is gone – I’m left with a blank page.
Five-year, cancer-specific survival for patients who developed biochemical failure within 18 months was 69.
Fleck dystrophy does not require specific treatment, but it did not recur in a corneal graft within 10 years in a patient who underwent a penetrating keratoplasty (javascript:PopGlossary('Penetrating keratoplasty')) for an associated keratoconus (disease.
Follow-up studies should be done in a year.
Following a national directive, the government will use this association to help on improving the development of solar and wind energy in the future.
Following his triumphant worldwide reunion tour with Return To Forever in 2008 and separate trio tours in 2009 with Chick Corea and Stanley Clarke and pianist Hiromi with Clarke, drummer Lenny White was primed to put out his own recording, his first as a leader in ten years.
Food and Drug Administration will issue its definition of 'gluten-free' in the next few months.
Food and Drug Administration-approved agent that has potent on-treatment viral response and low rates of resistance; in the future, these regimens may include a combination of more than one nucleos(t)ide analogue or a combination of a nucleos(t)ide analogue and pegylated interferon.
For Phil Hellmuth to say things like, “We’ll see if you’re around in 5 years” in insane.
For a gaming machine, I would go with a motherboard with AM3 socket as it'll offer expandability in the future.
For americium-241, it is known that half of the atoms decay in 458 years.
For comparison, a control group of 116 sperm samples were also checked from husbands who had visited the hospital but whose wives had produced living normal children within two years.
For example, a MVA driver whose accident was the result of speeding can decide to reduce his driving speed in the future and thereby regain a sense of control and safety.
For example, charges that are connected with traveling can be paid in 36 months.
For example, he notes that Jesus taught that the "kingdom of heaven" was already present on Earth and can be experienced right now, but overlooks Jesus' teaching that one must be born again by believing in him as the Son of God and Savior to see that kingdom in the future.
For example, if a warranty salesperson tells you they will put you on a blacklist of any kind that would prevent you from being able to purchase a policy in the future, DO NOT BUY FROM THAT COMPANY.
For example, if we erect a limestone monument in the state of Massachussetts, it will almost "melt" within one hundred years.
For example, if you contribute £900 to the account in one year, you can't add £1,500 the next year to make up the shortfall.
For example, if you owe $50,000 on your mortgage in 10 years and your home is worth $150,000 you can refinance into a mortgage that is worth $80,000 over 20 years and pocket the difference.
For example, on 4th April 2008 a famous shopping street that crosses one of the Island's divided cities was reopened for the first time in 40 years.
For example, the continuing shortage of land will mean that more development will be on contaminated sites in the future with a consequent requirement to protect health and safety through the use of higher specification membranes to provide a barrier against harmful gases.
For example, the customer may need the creditors goods or services now or in the future, or may want to use the company as a credit reference.
For example, three out of nine cats fed an acidifying diet containing 40% protein and marginal levels of potassium developed chronic renal failure within 2 years.
For example, when buying already existent and active World of Warcraft accounts, there is an inevitable possibility that the original owner would suddenly and surprisingly show up in the future to reclaim the WoW account.
For example, when licenses are being negotiated before patents have issued and the license is to both knowhow and patents that are expected (or at least hoped) to issue in the future, the potential licensees may contend that charging full royalties if the patents do not issue (or do not cover the product) would be patent misuse, and that the royalties need to be separately allocated and charged on know-how and issued patents.
For his first studio album in seven years, Grammy-winning guitarist Jeff Beck returns with an eclectic mix of tracks that find the guitar virtuoso accompanied by a handpicked cast of talented musicians, as well as several songs accompanied by a 64-piece orchestra.
For his part Planning Director Craig Phillips told Rodell that, if Oriental Pain Management Center “is found to be an adult business in the future, the city will take steps to enforce the ordinance.
For independent pharmacies to survive in the future, we as independents must pool our resources.
For instance, if you inform us of a specific preference, we will attempt to satisfy that request when you visit our website or country in the future.
For instance, if you plan to retire in ten years, and you've not saved any money towards that end, you must have a high exposure tolerance - because you have to do some aggressive - risky - investing in order to attain your financial goal.
For knowledge of the past can only help us do more to protect those people who count on us today and in the future.
For loan supply on existing credit lines in the next three months, 10 percent of respondents said it will deteriorate and 10 percent anticipated improvement, giving a net balance of 0.
For many years these prices hovered out of my reach; but astonishingly, Chez TJ hasn't raised their prices in 8 years.
For me personally, it involves reflection of what has gone on in the past month coupled with what needs to happen differently in the future.
For me, it was just a mark for me to work towards someday.
For my dearest lord Father Peter, Bishop of Porto and Saint Rufina, Lotario, unworthy cardinal-deacon, prays for grace in the present and glory in the future.
For new producers with experience (and without existing books of business) 0,000 to 0,000 in commissions handled is expected in three years, with ,000 to ,000 in new commissions produced per year.
For new traders the word future can be confusing as the word implies that everything takes place in the future.
For next third of patients CLL may be "managed" to the point where its impact on their lives is reduced and they can look forward to good quality of life for many years ahead.
For non-citizens and non-permanent resident individuals, gains from the disposal of real property within 5 years are subject to tax at a flat rate of 30%.
For patients with various back problems, regular exercise combined with weight loss (when necessary) can reduce existing back pain and prevent certain types of back problems in the future.
For pessimists, a negative event will surely lead on to more negative events in the future.
For right now we are content and at peace where we are, but still know that God has many plans for us in the future as Paula finishes school and I work on getting my book published.
For round masses or round calcifications on a first mammogram, the risk of cancer is less than 2%, and repeat mammography in 6 months is recommended.
For some reason, I have a good feeling we are going to be seeing much more of Hayden in the future.
For that to happen, we have to read, and we have to share, and we have to be deliberate about it so in the future, it’s second nature.
For the Hondurans and the Swiss, attention will turn to appearing at the next World Cup in four years time.
For the contact center industry to be viable in the future, public trust must be restored.
For the first time in 10 years, The Exorcist will be in theatres along with never-before-seen on-set footage from the making of the film and interviews with director William Friedkin, writer William Peter Blatty and members of the original cast and crew.
For the first time in 30 years, MilwaukeeCounty officials are refusing to release a safety report about the embattled Mental Health Complex with a history of violence, abuse and even death.
For the first time in 35 years, America’s total fertility rate — the estimated [.
For the first time in 35 years, brothers are opposing each other in a conference final - Carolina's Eric Staal and Pittsburgh's Jordan - and Carol.
For the first time in a decade, 1997 saw concerted eruptions.
For the first time in four years, the US dollar was exchanging at Ksh 80.
For the first time in nearly 30 years, our government and the energy giant E.
For the first time in seven years, Grönholm was powerless on his favorite surface, snow.
For the first time in seven years, the Dolphins gather understanding that at the season's conclusion, a Super Bowl appearance could be in their reach.
For the first time in seven years, the Roanoke Valley Aquatic Association season-ending championship did not go to Hunting Hills Country Club.
For the first time in two years, French venture capital investment in high-tech companies increased marginally, to E271m.
For the last two years, I have been seeing an Oncologist at Duke University because I knew I would find my self in this situation at some point in the future.
For the next six weeks, they will shadow their assigned Moroi and gain a glimpse of what their lives will be like in the future, protecting and guarding the lives of others at all times.
For the past 5 years A&S BMW Motorcycles has been the best place to buy BMW Motorcycle accessories, parts and riding gear online, and in the future A&S Ducati will become for Ducatistis what it has already been for BMW riders.
For the second time in five years, a real mid-major is in the NCAA Men’s Basketball Tournament Final Four.
For the time is coming when those governed by their physical minds, chained to the conditions of the earth plane, when such as these will be as straying sheep, without one to draw them back into the safety of faith and trust in God.
For the time will come when they will [.
For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but according to their own desires, because they have itching ears, they will heap up for themselves teachers; and they will turn their ears away from the truth, and be turned aside to fables.
For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance to their own desires, and will turn away their ears from the truth and will turn aside to myths.
For those who live together before marriage,  the rate of divorce doubles to about 65 percent within ten years.
For those whohave millions of dollars intheir bank account, a Rolls Royce in the garage, and a 16-room mansion, there sometimes comes along with it the belief that they “owe” it to the world to spread the wealth.
For us, time is horizontal—that is to say, our watches tick away one second after another, today follows yesterday, this month comes before next month, this year is sandwiched between last year and next year, and so on.
For we meet in an hour of change and challenge, in a decade of hope and fear; in an age of both knowledge and ignorance.
For women with diabetes who are pregnant, trying to conceive, with children (no matter what age), or just thinking about having a baby someday.
For, someday, the things of life will be taken away from us, one by one.
Forced to experience outrageous levels of violence, abuse, and neglect, young people leave DJJ damaged and unprepared — 70% are rearrested within two years.
Foreign currency forward contracts are used as a foreign currency hedge when an investor has an obligation to either make or take a foreign currency payment at some point in the future.
Forever Someday (chinese-symbol-forever-someday.
Forget not that the time will come when the body of flesh will be laid aside, when that mind of yours, which seems so all-important now, will have lost its cunning, when the sight of your physical eyes will have grown dim.
Former Harry Potter actor and all-around unique guy Sean Biggerstaff has updated his weblog for the first time in a month.
Former Jump5 member Chris Fedun calls in to talk about his new song 'Control' and material he'll be working on in the future.
Fortunately technology has advanced in the three years since I bought the model I had to replace and the options were seemingly unlimited.
Forty-nine percent of nest trees were used at least twice in five years.
Foster 'commends' organizers; recallsfirst charter school effort in Hammond 20 years ago HAMMOND---The Hammond Organization of People for Educa.
Found in a 4500 year old grave in the city of Ur, its 18 inch wide panels are inlaid in shell and lapis lazuli with a panorama of figures from all classes of society.
Four MRI scans in three years showed reduction and disappearance of tumor.
Fox Chase maintains these researchers are all likely to make news in the next 12 months.
France is a small state here in the North American continent and you are talking about traveling thru over a dozen of them in three months.
France is all nuclear, which is fantastic - I hope to visit Cadarache someday, once ITER is running.
Frank had graduated a year ahead of me.
Free game demo will become available for the download in 2 months or less.
Freedom is his fourth novel, and, yes, his first in nine years since The Corrections.
Freeman and Paralympian Louise Sauvage then lit the cauldron for the first time in 10 years.
French violins will triple in price in the next ten years.
Frenzy among the fashionable women has been triggered by the Balenciaga Handbags, still new on the market and very likely available wholesale in a few months.
Froemming, who umped a record 37 years in the majors, said the cheque was more than he made in total in 13 years umpiring in the minors.
From 30% to 50% of all patients in the US having cataract extraction develop opacification of the posterior lens capsule within 2 years and require laser treatment, with its own significant risk of complications.
From The Seattle Times this month comes a new list of trees and shrubs seen in the Pacific Northwest.
From a business standpoint, the stalemate had resulted in consternation among investors who wondered how the government might regulate environmental laws in the future.
From dancing like twats in the bedroom to Last Night over and over again, to seeing them four times in a year - it's safe to say that The Strokes' shadow loomed large over the decade.
From four to 182 employees in four years is fast growth.
From his accomplishments in a three year ring career that ended prematurely at the age of nineteen, Mouzon was obviously one of the more gifted fighters ever to step into a ring.
From making death threats to a cartoonist in Denmark to around 30 Churches being attacked or burned down in Indonesia within one year, one has to wonder if Islam is as peaceful as President Obama keeps telling us.
From the Daily Record: Poll: Homeowners can’t afford new home in own town Donna Mackey bought her four-bedroom house in Butler 20 years ago for about $120,000.
From the name itself, the individual can already tell what it can do as well as prevent new threats from ever popping up in the future.
From the steps involved in working with governments and issuers to the roles of public finance attorneys in transactions, these authors articulate the finer points around public finance now and what will hold true in the future.
From the urban queen in Corporate to the wild untamed lioness in Omkara, Bipasha Basu reveals quite a range within a month.
From time to time I come across people who have developed a real skill in living graciously and glamorously by refining their creative decorating talent and not being intimidated buy do-it-yourself projects.
From what I’ve been led to understand I’ll be lucky to be around in 5 years.
Fuck, what this woman can do in a year!
Fuel Farm Project – Ness informed the board that our fuel farm project has been funded, (one federal and one state grant); very pleased with how the State came through with the grant for the above ground 100ll fuel tank (Fed’s determined it didn’t qualify for funding, although it’s been in our 5 year plan).
Fulham boss Roy Hodgson was looking to earn his first win since signing a new 12-month rolling contract this week and welcome back Johnson to make his first start in three months after to a groin injury.
Fulham boss Roy Hodgson was seeking his first win since signing a new 12-month rolling contract this week and welcomed back Johnson to make his first start in three months after a groin injury.
Full seminar schedule will be posted in our Events & Training category in the future.
Fun times ahead.
Funding has been identified and the project will be completed in next two years.
Further, the government is planning on spending over Rs 1,000 billion on urban development schemes in the next six years as the urban population has increased to 30 percent from 15 percent and is expected to increase to 45 percent by 2021.
Further, you could also be denied entry if your passport expires within six months of your entry into the country.
Furthermore, I don’t think that much to-do would be made through-out the Bible about the importance of “water with a little wine added” at wedding celebrations such as the one Jesus was at, and the one we will celebrate at the Father’s banquet table someday.
Furthermore, despite what the RCG may claim, there is virtually no scriptural authority or historical record implying this was ever done in the past or will ever be done in the future.
Furthermore, long-term follow-up is needed in comparing surgery with radiation therapy because recovery of erectile function typically occurs within a year or so after radical prostatectomy, whereas the damaging impact of radiation on erectile function is slow and gradual, with declines still being observed as long as 2 or 3 years after treatment.
Futures sports gambling is when gamblers bet on odds for a team to win the challenge or on over/under for a team's complete wins in a year.
GBD may revise this Policy at any time in the future to (i) improve or modify the GBD Service, (ii) reflect future developments in GBD data information gathering, storing and release practices, (iii) comply with applicable laws, and (iv) reflect changes in GBD business structure.
GBD reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to: (i) disqualify from this or any promotion it sponsors now, or in the future, any person it finds, in its sole discretion, has intentionally violated these Terms and Conditions, tampered with the eligibility process, or any other aspect of the promotion; and (ii) cancel or suspend part or all of this program in the event that printing errors, tampering, fraud, unauthorized intervention or other causes beyond GBD ’s control, corrupt or impair the administration, security or fairness of the program.
GSK R&D China will grow in the next decade to become one of the major GSK R&D centers.
Game (        pl=Wa5mD7rP2BC6MBlHZweP60Y5_FghoXCK5C7-zQhwOqIIevsEY35T058ZKCKUPshyjEvGsnc0LRASAwYxBUb0nqlJVQgtTSErUhhABzNWVU70aRsZR4KWDBwnnVQvts9fTuRBlMYZYuPPNL8ckrBQWoPEwdghdE3JRFVvtv2aQVCoKJCV53cSPhFh9oGhIIb1iXUdBaGGsVXLgel-oHh1YcspwcL69hbhTd85FdIE-xJUH7AIStygudj1CQ0cvqSNRJIAVgHydJxMOhA7HsS5xuqVDlOho2rbTi2xziVh4ayGQBp6yAAGkWL7Aqt18wxu25FgBloTRL4IFCAShAeNm2bDVXZdc2LH8YnOtnhDs8p2suAnfWW8GNBmNoOdmTckAgqb4fXcdSAhGWpeJY4kMtTovO7pxlosMQZjL6JsYpm7RM1fNlumB7PhDgGJcGBvJ-z56FVLZXDRud12QdIcoHC24Fqm2Cg1au3R-EiTX1AH5fihHBw9RtXqlvtwDShLdeVJlmGP5vnF2Ed8FxodMlh3VXcarvZC9YuqNLBcg2xFWAfHcExeI9OGb2Rk99o-Rat808u7qjPYaU1vzQZiUogJWBZn_GuzdU_bethxV3Kj3yt7lt4ziXBXn9mlkGIS3mqqEaPFRTJ2cecqMZOQEisyDXWmUyW4PGaPp3xYvHybp8W5M_w25RNATla2yrQVlkwVnhDyCiPMxufHewEdDuC9HalTk6MmDZUKNBSENxDG13YQMNk6Fb93clk_8l2JUw3qUTdfmle84mYuW583muExpY--azOHVtAgLAX80lQEas3xP79EdOvRNKAeABpoQBjSyIh-imlTskmIqUFDyEONaZqGBkADkulJT-qnaAgTmNQAANBoAA0aMmEa1FNPwGiapoamGtRMekhP6FGGeKJNeTJJT08aMbXpUdNEm2wq1OA2Oou2WwJA8P__v_D__7_y_wNDAFCA3zEAAKMcfqxZUyZZQTE2aFpCigMAAPA) Get your Degree in Education Media Design & Technology in 12 Months!
Game (        pl=YsPq4IgPPns6Dowe9QgHpjA-E8sCCYVTJHfxT3B8mJVb15SaaEuyQyS0akHacBGOfgo0rudcApFeYAYwFWJAs7Nnvzh--NyFBW-qShxAR-usypQTmoi8SiDMSODWFpro5ybu_Q0iJSKRjBdBpSLQUEBpE4cZPQCO0_3YHbUJ6HwIQS7vKmJznmHW7MzDu8BKEIMaDC8lhY5AUhEGlnfmNzD0zbYLM3vVYAYCL9rWOSrgyL5zjuUDOIIS5xOlv7PS4NMXk6PuSxhRIH2iy-1rJI_uRDqxrA1Slcur0veHukEigcHMYkBId54QENWZ3d_-xOqFRAem0U2kjlYBCCogoz5k-eizukXlj_OwHHhKM3okWBFZXigpU0tKG9YQ4KVCLDIkMieJsNl6oGBkqPOUgNwiu1Af6a1_LQdGxgoxGDYZbS1XGsaWEgmXxBfMEQGCVQfKm__CmF8unHvyPt_VEkDVNNyMt60ueiluLxe8ewnoSXlr1B5sUqIZ3qbdrDzJWdCreu5yVa3C9SMclVmGhdR0Z5OdlHGXZ4Vvn5zWgNwQfMIDEpT-8jlqJWCh97g-cXVW583hXHPkGC0mTAGLqtebgxiwAdCHBt6_SnJjkm5G-JV4G95FvxWJ1xT68dHMW9-IF1rhOaDJUSUr41h1AaKoDbLbl45rp0F6Omf8SKZZ4krgVMqhFmlha6PjwBYJGHKRZZ8VtzFMCNVcx2b031UsFpLXNFTdKtnGGilUOQz0OASLhRaW-z0BznTNbtVh9yN6MzjMkASpEW7V3RbXWm0S9TOOPUk-wwKanYgjThqBQVtMNavqKrCLJX14kBAjCA3IaBpkQDGDpimP0AgTpsZExNQAiGk0gAaABgCNRqNpmqSfpvSopwgADWgADQCQick0NaaeYII8UQ3Sozb1NJrapE3ph0I_ZXqqTU9ho3roSU95qqenGhoiYic6i7ZbAkDw__-_8P__v_L_A0MAUIBfNAAA4zOxLFlTJllBMTZoWkKUAwAA8A) Get your Degree in Education Media Design & Technology in 12 Months!
Gary went around the world four times in five years as one of fifteen pastry chefs onboard the Cambra.
Gaston, who began his career with the Blue Jays as hitting coach in 1982, led the club to four American League East titles and has compiled an 882-833 record in 12 years as skipper (from 1989-97 and from 2008-10).
Gaylorâ€™s documentary follows several key individuals who seek to redefine originality in the future, including mash-up musical phenomenon Girl Talk (Greg Gillis), Creative Commons founder Lawrence Lessig, BoingBoing creator Cory Doctorow, and Gilberto Gil, Brazilâ€™s Minister of Culture.
Gene Tunney was the type of man that comes along once in a hundred years – the looks of a movie star, the intellect of a college professor, a student of Shakespeare, and Heavyweight Boxing Champion of the World.
Gene therapy may become available in the future.
Generally, most post graduate courses have been diluted and made easier where a double Masters degree without a research component can be gained within a year.
Generation Y will represent 24 per cent of the city's total population within a decade, says Francesca McDonagh, head of personal financial services Hong Kong, HSBC.
Gentleman's Club Guide When the time comes to plan a bachelor party you need to figure out what you're going to do.
George Aviet hopes to offer similar events again in the future, perhaps after he and the staff recover from this one.
George Dotski has lived in Cheboygan his whole life and in fact lives in the same house he was born in 85 years ago.
George Washington was an honorable man; he would not have visited a Union General in 1862, in support of a tyrant like unto Abraham Lincoln, in opposition to the most Christian People in 1900 years up to that time.
Georgia-based company could invest $250 million in a solar cell making plant and create up to 500 jobs within five years in Thomas Township.
Germany are a better team than the one Spain beat two years ago in the European Championship final but the core of the Spanish side have since achieved unprecedented success at club level with Barcelona.
Get Better Job In Your City in 1 Month  (product_desc.
Get Better Job In Your City in 1 Month (a,7755,Get-Better-Job-In-Your-City-in-1-Month.
Get a degree in 1 year with Curtin Singapore!
Get comfortable with negotiation, start your research, narrow your research, practice your pitch, lay your cards on the table, be prepared to hold out, keep your promise, and get ready to earn what you deserve, now and in the future.
Get off on the right foot and you have a better chance of being one of the success statistics in five years.
Getting married in 10 months and want to lose weight.
Git-mo will be closed in one year.
Gittens closed with a call to action, “To meet each of these challenges in a world characterized by constant change, we must marshal our limited resources, investing and spending wisely and work closely with our industry partners to develop shared solutions that will serve our customers more efficiently in the years ahead.
Give an example of how you have employed satyagraha in the past, and another example of how you might invoke it in the future.
Given Google's run-in with Oracle, who's to say they won't switch tack in the future anyhow?
Given its location, the area appears suited to commercial use sometime in the future.
Given the apparent sudden change in attitudes, it will be interesting to look at this issue again in five or six months or in a year to see whether this is a short-term blip in response to the first brand-new Democratic President in 16 years or a sudden, sustainable change in public opinion.
Given the compromise between performance and durability the drivers have to make when choosing stud lengths, it will be difficult to define a single tire type for these winter events in the future when there will be just one tire manufacturer.
Given the fact I use four each week and get credited a nickel apiece I have paid for them within a year.
Given the public outcry regarding the real and perceived risks that Citizens insurers, providing coverage to new construction in high risk areas that will likely end up in Citizens in the future is counterintuitive to the direction Citizens should be heading.
Given the young status of the HIV virus and infection (it has only been identified since the 1980’s) research is active and thus is looking at the possibility that therapy may at some point in the future be intermittent.
Glenn said: “He did all kinds of tests and he said, ‘you have macular dystrophy …you could go blind in the next year.
God damned Brooke Skyes nude body just make my little man stand at attention like few other teen babes have done for me in 15 years when I was in my sexual prime.
God in the future is the Hope.
God is acting in the present for the accomplishment of His redemptive purpose for Israel, and He will act in the future to bring His purposes to their consummation when His Kingdom will fill all the earth.
God will form you slowly, day by day and week by week, so that you will be ready to be His instrument when the time comes.
God's reign manifests itself both in the future and in the present and thereby creates both a future realm and a present realm in which man may experience the blessings of His reign.
God's reign manifests itself both in the future and in the present and thereby creates both a future realm and a present realm in which men may experience the blessings of His reign.
Going on without her, I'm only reminded to keep my ways towards God so I can see her again someday.
Gold prices may rally to $1,300 in six months, driven by record low borrowing costs and the prospect of renewed quantitative easing in the U.
Goldman Sachs analysts led by Thomas Stolper in London reversed their outlook for the euro twice in two months, and said in the most recent forecast that the dollar will weaken against the euro by January as U.
Golf, as a sport, is one of the fastest emerging sectors in India, with an estimated growth of 30 per cent in the next five years.
Good financial and environmental performance in the present is an investment in the future of the company.
Good luck Chase - fun times ahead by the sounds of it.
Good luck in the future, man.
Good times ahead!
Good times ahead.
Good track record of helping students to rise from 'Below Average' levels to Top levels within a few months.
Goodwin 10 years ago.
Google did it in 8 years.
Got a SERIOUS interest in the future of solar?
Grace’s expression said it all, “you could have saved yourself a lot of time and given in six years ago”, I looked at her and whispered “I know.
Grade challenges are strongly encouraged to be petitioned within six months of the end of the course.
Granted, motives for becoming parents are invariably mixed – a need to “pass on life,” a wish to nurture someone, “an investment in the future.
Grants were offered on a first-come, first served basis to applicants who had sought advice from a Business Link East Midlands business adviser since April, and were so much in demand that all the cash was allocated within three months of the scheme’s launch in August.
Gray, a professor at Colorado State University, and founder of the Weather Channel, predicts we will have global cooling within ten years.
Greed was his motive: "I wish to fill my pockets," he said, and boasted, "I can in five years make a larger fortune than ever.
Griffin scored on a 70-yard run and turned in the Huskies' first 200-yard rushing game in two years.
GroSolar will keep Borrego’s locations in San Jose, Berkeley and Petaluma, and plans to drop the Borrego name in about four months, Wolfe said.
Ground will break in the next year – and in another year after that – a new school!
Growing up in the 50s, I can vividly remember the "finned" cars that I always wanted to own someday.
Guess I'll have to keep an eye out for those in the future.
Guide Lisa as she befriends a local girl, searches for the magic tiles that can send her home, and leaves clues for Alex to find in the future.
Gwen Stacy - Gone Fishing See You In A Year (/m/misc_unsigned_bands/gwen_stacy_-_gone_fishing_see_you_in_a_year-lyrics.
HERE’S the scorecard so far: a few thousand militants in Malakand division; one military operation; over a million people displaced in a matter of weeks; a few thousand – militants, soldiers and civilians combined – probably already killed in the fighting; a destroyed economy in the northwest; a third devastating terrorist strike in Lahore in three months; ethnic fault lines re-opened with a vengeance in Sindh, and to a lesser extent in Balochistan and Punjab; and another operation imminent in South Waziristan, which will in all likelihood unleash more mayhem.
HVAC technician schools are not difficult to find, and can offer complete training in 1 year or less, allowing professionals to fast-track their careers.
Hammer beats Carlsen for his first win against him in nearly 10 years.
Hampered in the past by the preconceptions and unrealistic expectations of record executives and marketing operatives, her transition to Telarc puts her in a place that feels much more empowered, much more free than she’s ever felt in the four years since her recording career began.
Happy Birthday and more blogging years ahead.
Happy rolling and maybe we will meet someday at a Bocce court.
Happy to make a contribution for the many hours of pleasure this fantastic community gave me and will do in the future, I am sure.
Hard to believe I’ve not spoken to Joe in 9 years.
Hardstyle will spread over the world like a virus in the next few years.
Hardy honed his skill In Japan in the next two decades under the guidance of a traditional tattoo artist.
Hargrove-Krieghoff said that SAW is used only in the health care industry at this time, although in the future it may be extended to other industries.
Harley Davidson is a legend in a lot of people's eyes and will stay that way with the improvements that they'll be making in the future.
Harris (1990) commented it is better to spend the time imagining a lawyer on your shoulder now, than to face a phalanx of plaintiff attorneys in the future without the protection of adequate documentation.
Harris has seen a lot in her 32 years at Accenture, but perhaps nowhere has the landscape change so dramatically as the number of women at the firm.
Hartack had been on quite a win streak, completing four major victories in six months.
Has not been driven in 15 years.
Has the time come for a reconditioned forklift fleet?
Have a break from the norm for the upcoming year with this unusual J.
Have a wonderful time welcoming your girls to the Carnival Splendor.
Have been following your moving adventures on Twitter and empathising – was about a month ahead of you.
Have put most of my albums on my MP3 so will be listening to a lot of Jethro Tull in the future as well as the Ian Anderson solo projects.
Have you ever made $107,000 in one month working part-time either at your J.
Have you ever thought you can earn $100000 in a year just completing online study and have online degree?
Have you started, accepted, or continued a paying job in the 12 months following graduation?
Having 13 metastases, 9 on my spine commits me to a unpleasant death sometime in the future.
Having achieved this remarkable milestone within six months of launch of its services in Sri Lanka, Bharti Airtel Lanka is now the fastest growing mobile services operator in the country.
Having finished third for the second successive World Cup   after being the runners-up in 2002, there is much hope that can be taken from the overall performance at this tournament that they can take the final step to victory in four years time.
Having friends at Lamar, Texas State, and UTSA would likely help them in 10 years.
Having not studied Mohammed’s life in great detail, I will not pass an opinion, though I may do so in the future.
Having paid your bills on time in the past is a good indicator that you will do so in the future.
Having processed over 40,000 orders in 4 years, Hobby-wing knows how to satisfy you!
Having the blog is helping me take my handwritten travel journals and get them into publishable form for a future book, perhaps, someday.
He added that TxDOT’s primary opposition has been safety concerns, but the TPA hopes changes to TxDOT’s policy might be forthcoming in the future.
He added that efforts to certify the reserves could begin within the next three years.
He added that he would go on to create a further business in Wigan in the next 18 months, following a similar model.
He advanced in the next 3 years to the rank of cavalry captain and after 3 more years to the rank of major.
He allegedly took care of old cronies when he increased the “consulting” budget for the missile range from $508,000 to over $2 million in one year!
He also projects the city saving money by switching to the UV system ahead of state mandate, when it might cost more to do so in the future.
He and I have a notion that there is not one knowledge or science of the past, another of the present, a third of what is likely to be best and what will be best in the future; but that of all three there is one science only: for example, there is one science of medicine which is concerned with the inspection of health equally in all times, present, past, and future; and one science of husbandry in like manner, which is concerned with the productions of the earth in all times.
He believes someday he'll fly to the ends of the universe.
He believes the county board will be evaluating all department heads in the future.
He boasted that: "Within 20 years there won't be a Bible or a church left in Angola.
He came into this season having only played in 8 games in five years and now after tearing the ACL in his left knee for the third time on Saturday in practice it looks as though he’ll retire with 7 catches for 86 yards and sadly no touchdowns.
He cautioned listeners that, “In light of all the other things that Congress has on its plate in 2010 and the fact that it’s an election year, you have to be realistic that no major changes to dairy policy are likely in the next 12 months.
He completed it in 4 months and 3 days.
He didn't become extremely ill again until 10 years later.
He didn't hesitate to tell everyone that someday he would be as popular as Sinatra.
He didn't worry any more about the years ahead than did cattle in green pastures.
He died on July 4, 1727, “in the 63 year of his age being killed with a plough.
He drives a refurbished Ford Bronco from the 1970s and thinks he’d be good at fixing up old houses someday.
He finally started working on it again in 3 months.
He gave me an embrace, then shook my hand and said God willing we would meet again someday.
He had no answer of course but this will be an issue in my mind when Abram comes stumping for votes in Danville in the months ahead.
He had the misfortune to lose his wife within a few years of his marriage, soon after which he embarked for England, for the purpose of improving his mind and manners.
He has a glint of mischief in his eyes which will make him a youth icon if he chooses his roles well in the future.
He has been described as a “model prisoner” in his report to the judge by those who evaluate an inmate’s behavior while in custody…but that was then when he thought he might get out someday…looking at this much time, one might wonder what one might do for a nice dish of linguine with a little marinara and a nice heavy chianti.
He has driven more than 30,000 kms in 4 years, he has 7-8 kilos he has to get rid of, he could do 20-25 push ups just after he left the service, he visited 5 European cities, visited 9 American cities, he has more than 100 items in his local newspaper collection, he is an academic advisor for 45 students, he has 134 students registered in his 4 courses.
He has inspired hundreds of thousands of people across the UK to achieve their goals and transform the quality of their lives, he created a company from scratch with just £10,000 that pulled in over £21,000,000 in 5 years and is THE ‘Guru’ people approach if they want to improve their performance.
He has thus boldly made a great beginning, and shows us how classification will in the future be treated.
He hasn't had to trim hooves in three years.
He hasn’t paid in six months, why should he start now?
He hoped to have an initial reading of the completed constitution in a year and a half.
He is NOT interested in the business -- not now and not in the future.
He is encouraging his disciples, then and in the future, not to recant or buckle under persecution, but to endure to the end.
He is one of the most successful recruiters of all time, personally recruiting more than 500 distributors in one year into his primary business while working only 20 hours per week.
He is right that it IS a matter of faith, not of knowledge, that enables us to trust in the future, but he has not identified the "greatest.
He knew that such a thing was bound to happen someday.
He made his debut in a two year-old Mercedes C-Klasse in 2007 and finished fifth overall in the final standings.
He made the confident prediction that in the future smoking in the street would be banned and smoking would be confined to designated areas as is already happening at sporting complexes like the Melbourne Cricket ground (MCG).
He makes more in a day than we do in a month between his fabrication business and his investments.
He measures it out at times with a sparing hand, and the soul suffers from this low diet; at other times, "without arguments or reasoning, in the space of a single Credo, He illuminates the soul with more light than she could with all her efforts acquire in several years.
He must ruin their reputations in the Christian community, and for this, he expects someday to hear the words, "Well done, good and faithful servant.
He never anticipated, when he started writing in 2006 that his book would come out during the worst market meltdown in 79 years.
He noted the first phase was the core, which were the financials, to be done in about 8 months after contract signing; next was Payroll with HR to be done 12 months after contract signing; and last were revenues, to be done18 months after contract signing.
He noted the rest were anticipated to be done in 2 years after the contract signing which included Public Works, permits, etc.
He notified the Roman High officials of this debt and told them to expect it to be collected within a month.
He progresses faster in three months during the summer at Chileda than in his own school setting.
He questioned how it could be further prevented in the future and Chief Moser stated relentless follow-up in hot spots to determine where the incidents were occurring.
He reported that health professional organizations have approved the concept however, because chocolate milk contains sugar, it sometimes comes under attack so the dairy check off has worked with processors and health professionals to reformulate so that most of the chocolate milk sold in schools only contains 25-26 grams of sugar.
He said South Asia is one of the most dynamic and important regions in the world, and all countries must be prepared for both challenges and opportunities in the future.
He said he contacted Asset Acceptance again after noticing the company had not purchased a medical receivables portfolio in several months.
He said he will help keep the Harbor District running smoothly in light of major changes in the next four years at Oyster Point.
He said imxation has obtained all the skills and experience from its entities around the world to support projects in the future industries like photovoltaic solar fuel cells a .
He said nothing happened physically between them in LA but they got very close and he hoped to see something developing in the future.
He said the country’s next step is to launch the satellite to an altitude of 700 kilometers and 1000 kilometers in the next three years.
He said: "If we are being realistic about the current situation, to be inside a new stadium within the next five years, it's very hard to see that happening.
He shared with these students on the need to be good students and how their contributions from when they were students would make a difference in the future outcome of the United States.
He slipped and fell, promising himself to be more careful in the future.
He speaks words that the Risen Lord would someday speak to the apostles” – “Be not afraid” – “Do not fear, Mary!
He started riding his motorcycle again about six months after getting out of the hospital.
He started weight training in 2007, and his training escalated from a couple of days a week to 4-5 days a week within a year.
He stated a financial advantage was the continuity, stimulus funding may be available with a planned project, a potential for no escalation with a 3-5% savings, the best bond rate, lower risk of inflation in the future.
He stated the issue was a matter of timing, the allocation from the General Fund initially to the TIF fund with recapture of those dollars in the future when we had redevelopment as proposed by the plan.
He stated they would wrap this up in the next month.
He states that even the WebOS defectors, many likely jumping ship to Android and iOS after the one-year release of the original Sprint Pre, "…will be back once they see the breadth of product coming out of HP in the future.
He stayed in Rome two years "in his own hired house" and unimpeded [.
He takes an in-depth look at each game and pulls out the most pertinent information that will help you handicap games in the future.
He taught the people to live in peace and then moved on disappearing across the sea, but he promised he would someday return.
He testified that it began in his youth and that the depressions had been acute in the six months prior to his entry into the monastery.
He told the assembled press, local politicians (who included current Kenyan Prime Minister Raila Odinga), and students: “Hopefully I can provide some assistance in the future to this school and all that it can be.
He took each of his business entities as a separate most important one and gave it the most attention, thus the GE empire is going to grow and develop in the future, in case of GE being guided by such leaders as Jack Welch.
He used the income to help his peers who in a year had a first convert.
He very effectively keeps the focus not on the technologies themsleves but rather on the implications for how executives will run their businesses in the future.
He warned of the danger of a new surge in violence in Kashmir, where the insurgency is at its lowest level in two decades, unless the grievances of local people are addressed.
He was recently selected by Martha Stewart as one of the best wedding ideas in 15 years.
He was supposed to attend a local art college as a condition of early release but, having spent more than half his life in prison, he coped poorly with freedom, and within a month he was again in court, facing charges of armed robbery.
He was the first Dr I had seen in 5 years that actually wanted to find the source of my problem instead of trying to just put me on medicine.
He went on to recall the "deeply Christian soul of Austria," and he encouraged the pilgrims to "work so that also in the future, this testimony of Christ remains vibrant, to give men support and guidance in their lives.
He'll be a top 5 RB in a few years.
He'll have to make his go/no go decision for Colorado by this summer, 16-18 months ahead of the election.
He's a bit of a lightweight at the moment so he isn't exactly ready for the leagues those clubs play in yet but in a few years, he'll be massive.
He's been one of the most consistent RBs in history and if he keeps it up, he will most certainly get strong consideration for the Hall of Fame someday.
He's not showing it now, but in a few months, he will be sporting four black stockings to match his black mane/tail/forelock, and he has a graceful arched neck with a sloping shoulder, nice round hindquarters, and a cute little crease down his back.
Headline NewsColdest Winter in 1000 Years Coming (/index.
Health Care Professions - There will be a need in the next few years for primary care doctors, dentists, nurses, orderlies, pharmacy techs, home care and nursing aids, physical therapists, physician and dental assistants and mental health counselors.
Health insurance is poised to become the second largest business for non-life insurers in the next three years after motor insurance.
Healthy, no cancer in 18 years.
Heer said it was important to get any information that might help the county to reform its patient care practices in the future.
Held on August 23 & 24 as the first Rubik's world competition in 21 years since 1982 Budapest World Championship.
Help me to maintain the habit, both now and in the future.
Hendry tells BBC News  that he's pessimistic on the state of Wall Street and anyone's ability to make money in the future - except his of course.
Her career skyrocketed when she accurately predicted the first rain storm in the city in 25 years and since then she's travelled all over the major metropolitan areas of northern NV, spreading good will and accurate weather reports at every turn.
Her careful observations throughout the county could help conservationists preserve much needed habitat in the future.
Her current album CARNIVAL RIDE, which contains the #1 co-written smash hits “So Small” and “All-American Girl” and the current co-written hit, “Last Name,” was certified double-platinum within 2 months of its release.
Her lips and chin had a gentle firmness, and in her pale greensuit she was like springtime come alive.
Her positive spirit and energy is apparent in Confessions, her first non-cast studio album in nearly 15 years which went on sale today.
Her small apartment in a not-particularly-fashionable part of Caracas is in a 50 year old building that hasn't received any maintenance in about as long.
Here is Zach Bonner, an amazing kid that you will hear a lot about in the future.
Here is how to sell your house in 3 months or less ‘for sale by owner’ (FSBO).
Here we are working on creating resources for sailors worldwide to get involved in programs, and help new programs get started, and hopefully in the future streamlining programs across the country and internationally.
Herein, an online data collection program can help you to achieve the goals that you have originally thought within the next few years.
Here’s a bold prediction: No discernible result will occur, and the cutouts will be declared a success in a year or so.
Here’s to teaming up for a successful year ahead.
Here’s what Bill Simmons had to say about the pick  : The Sixers are on their fifth coach in five years (a guy who hasn’t coached a playoff game since 1997); they never fired the GM who gave Andre Iguodala and Elton Brand a combined $160 million; they don’t have a single trade chip; they won’t have cap space for three more years; and the last time they picked second in an NBA draft they took Keith Van Horn.
Herrera said it can take a student from four to seven years to learn English, and that having 20 graduates within three years shows great strides.
Hey guys in WI I was thinking spring should be comin within a month or 2 and we should start organizing a meet!
Hey guys, maybe in a few decades the girls will outnumber us!
He’s addicted to coffee and is only in manila for two months in a year, so my parents will do the subsidizing of coffee.
He’s going to be a fine addition to society in 10 years.
He’s gone from 180 to 250 pounds in three years, and it appears that he’s not going to gain much more weight.
He’s got a lot of neat art and we hope to work with him again in the future.
High and low, old and young, clergy and laity, fell before its onset, till in many regions it is estimated that within a year one-half the population died instead of a twentieth as in ordinary years.
His bow might someday prove useful, should he live long enough to learn to use it.
His comments come after research from Santander Credit Cards showed that 12 per cent of British adults have taken a gap year or work sabbatical in the past and a further eight per cent are planning to do so in the future.
His creative talent is so prolific that his designs will remain light years ahead of his imitators.
His fearless local political commentary has rocked the local blog scene for most of this decade and he plans to take it to the next level in the next decade here on Charm City Current.
His luck ran out within a year.
His presence on the beat will be missed, and we wish him all the best in the future.
His senior year he helped lead the team to the schools 2nd State Championship in 25 years.
His stake was worth over $2,000 to him in one year.
His subscribers may come to him for expert testimony, this year or sometime in the future.
Historical records dating back as long as pen and ink will be used to glean details of long forgotten species and maybe even give the modern world an insight into how we can avoid this happening in the future.
Historically, by earmarking most of our Zakat for needy causes outside America (and no doubt they are needy), we do miss out on building what we need to sustain the future generations of Muslims in the West.
Holds were filled, sailors gorged, and in a few decades giant tortoises were all but exterminated.
Homeopathy-light years ahead of allopathic (conventional) medicine-has already successfully introduced an influenza remedy made from the hearts and livers of wild ducks.
Hope does not extinguish suffering but sustains the belief that there can be an end to it, if not in your own life, then in the future.
Hope she hasn't become too comfortable in that house she lives in, because I'll bet on some lawyer owning it in about 5 years.
Hope they do that more often in the future.
Hope to go back in the future and stay longer.
Hope to see more good posts in the future.
Hope to see you in more movies in the future.
Hope to see you in uniform in the future.
Hope to see you on the road someday.
Hope we see a lot more posts from you in the future.
Hopefully I will have time to clean this up sometime in the future.
Hopefully I’ll get the chance to see it in the future.
Hopefully his dramas/movies will be better in the future!
Hopefully in the next year or so there will be some answers about this case study.
Hopefully it will someday become more available.
Hopefully more Kelly-abilia will be available here in the future as well!
Hopefully other players will look it and not be put off it being asked in the future.
Hopefully she will have a CD in the future.
Hopefully steps can be taken and lessons learned for a better system of check and balances in the future.
Hopefully we can complete the whole series someday.
Hopefully we'll find more specimens in the future that may include stomach contents.
Hopefully, in the future I can save others from the ruin that I have done myself in the trading world.
Hopefully, in the future, I will be able to make worthwhile contributions to the forum.
Hopefully, someday people in our society WILL have more empathy for couples struggling with this emotional roller-coaster, “tester” of just how much people can withstand, and (sadly) the massive toll it takes on a couple’s finances to either receive medical treatment or pursue adoption.
Horrendously inconsistent they may be domestically, but they have now seared into the quarter-finals of this competition for only the second time in 20 years.
House field hearings are scheduled in 2010 to prepare for work on the next farm bill, Galen reported, and “The dairy sector needs to get as much of a consensus as possible in the next few months so that, going forward in 2010, we do have a battle plan.
Households will be able to apply for up to two coupons, which must be redeemed within three months of receipt.
How Asian students learned more in 1 day at the IMEX Future Leaders’ Forum than in 1 month in the classroom (press.
How about just reporting in at one month and two months?
How can I be of help to Almost Home in the future?
How can I lose 25-30 pounds in a month?
How can I sell several thousand "adult toys" in a month?
How can a 100 year old know what is going to be needed in the next 100 years.
How can a people whose claim to the land of Palestine is based on their Biblical belief in God's generosity, who have suffered through history unlike any other peoples, who within three years of the Holocaust inflicted their own ethnic cleansing on an innocent people, who know the impact of lies, myths, propaganda and public relations campaign, who yearned for centuries for a homeland yet drove others from their own homeland, who confiscate land illegally from others to fulfill their limited understanding of God's promise, who can in an era of peace negotiations turn to the one man more associated with death and bloodshed than peace, a man who wasn't satisfied with bleeding victims in ambulances but whose insanity drove him to blow up the ambulance itself to ensure "no child is left alive" to fight for Palestine's freedom.
How can we eliminate the situation in the future?
How does telemedicine work and how widespread is it likely to become in the months and years ahead?
How else to explain that three years after the program was.
How handle these types of potential nuisance issues now and in the future continues to concern energy companies and citizens, as well as city staff and City Council members in Fort Worth and other, smaller cities in the Barnett Shale.
How many companies can honestly say they have created three new block-blaster market in a decade?
How many people visit your shopping centre in a year?
How many times MAT conducted in a year.
How these meetings are conducted will have a dramatic impact on the success of the community and will, more often than not, be responsible for whether members will be willing to serve in leadership positions in the future.
How we use energy now and how we will use it in the future.
How will this change impact you in the future?
How you leave another person will deeply affect how you both approach relationships in the future.
How you've paid your bills in the past can indicate how you'll pay in the future.
How your own money matters may fall in the future days?
However having a tonsillectomy will only stop the stones forming on your tonsils, it does not prevent you from coughing up or swallowing the sticky balls in the future.
However some of the other points definitely pricked my conscience and you’ve made me think about how I link out in the future.
However the Deputy Director of the Central Bank Dharma Dheerasinghe said that the Central Bank hopes to introduce this scheme to all financial organisations which are registered at the Central Bank in the future.
However the transfer to HD did not save our patients as all of them developed intestinal obstruction within a few months after cessation of CAPD and died.
However your audience isn’t stupid, and if you haven’t attempted to disclose as much as possible, that can have a huge influence on how much they trust your opinions and linking habits in the future.
However, I do expect that they will be very useful in a few months, as I expect that we will have a cold winter this year.
However, I think combining Google Keyword tool and Market Samurai only gives you the keyword people are looking for in your chosen niche, not finding what’s going to be hot in the next month.
However, INM’s Gavin O’Reilly and Google’s David Drummond did tell the audience of the World Newspaper Congress   in Hyderabad they would continue meeting in the future to try and solve the issue.
However, Mr Queen said the buy-out and growth capital businesses were becoming more similar and the new geographically focused structure would help 3i to raise new regionally focused funds in the future.
However, a legal action must be taken within one year from the date of knowledge of the violation and not exceeding two years from the date of the violation.
However, according to the experts, integrated marketing and digital are the key ingredient for growth in 2009 so companies should look into how they can integrate social networking into their communications strategy in the future.
However, by embarrassing them, by maybe threatening to take away the Olympics, by trade measures in the future, basically by pressure we may force them to at least abandon the most vicious, the most diabolical, the most bestial of their practices, such as this killing of innocent human beings in order to steal their organs.
However, graduating in four years is no guarantee and there may in fact be very positive reasons for lengthening your stay in Loretto; internships, double majors & minors, or study abroad just to name a few.
However, if this should change in the future, the applicant shall meet all of the requirements of Section 315-26(M) of the City Zoning Ordinance regarding outdoor storage.
However, if you have a bad credit rating, consider to work on it so that you will have a better credit record to help you secure cheap auto insurance quotes in the future.
However, if your car needs rear brake pads in the future, you will still be able to make a claim under the settlement.
However, if your financial condition does not improve you can end up being freed from the responsibility of your debts in a year or less.
However, in India we have diversity in languages and it is not possible for many years ahead to have a common language like Hindi.
However, in the 2 years since the alternative scenario was defined, observations have continued on that path.
However, in the future we may use the email addresses collected from orders received to notify you of sales, new product lines, and other news pertaining to Coyote's Game.
However, in the future, enhancements in the hydrological cycle may change the freshwater budget in the North Atlantic sufficiently to induce entirely different dynamics of the THC.
However, it was important to balance the need to help the economy in the near term with ensuring the budget deficit does not explode in the future, he said.
However, looking through fishing photos from the areas bait shops, I gotta wonder, will there still be good fishing in 20 years?
However, my schedule was accelerated (whole project in 4 months), which accounted for some very long days.
However, people living in Central America are more optimistic about how long it will take their economic situations to improve than most other countries polled, with a significant number believing their situation will improve within six months.
However, please be assured that if the Privacy Policy changes in the future, we will not use the personal information you have submitted to us under this Privacy Policy in a manner that is materially inconsistent with this Privacy Policy, without your prior consent.
However, should the Bylaws in the future choose to assign dues or fees to be considered a Vested Member, then after a probationary period, this fee is non-refundable.
However, such meeting shall be concluded within six months from the date of resolution in favor of the amalgamation of any of the companies, which was the latest, unless the meeting under this Section resolved to extend the period, but the total period shall not be more than one year.
However, the 2004 Youth Program Graduate of the Year has had to overcome many obstacles in her 19 years.
However, the Dutch parliament accepted a resolution by opposition member Tommel (Democrats'66 Party), which stated that RDM should receive the export license for the submarines, if at any time in the future other EC member states would also decided to sell military equipment to Taiwan.
However, the company hopes that it really makes a big difference to the lives of the needy children so that they can in turn help contribute to society in the future.
However, the high priest did not wear these garments at other times, but a more plain habit; he only did it when he went into the most sacred part of the temple, which he did but once in a year, on that day when our custom is for all of us to keep a fast to God.
However, the most important driver of China's growth has been exports, and as argued earlier, China's exports will not grow as fast in the future.
However, the recent improvement for all three markets has them headed toward positive territory for the year—possibly within a month's time if gains manage to continue into mid-winter.
However, the record shall be open to inspection within one year after the contract is fully executed.
However, these 7 tips may help you avoid many of the pitfalls by not being one of the four real estate agents who quit within one year or one of the nine who give up after 3 years.
However, these times are not permanent and industry experts believe that within two years the condition would improve considerably.
However, though the Group shares the view that increasing the working capital fund could be considered in the future, the proposed scheme of increasing the working capital fund would deprive Member States from their own resources - which are in the form of surpluses - that may be used by Member States to fulfil increasing financial obligations to the Agency.
However, to us, it is the key to our life on earth now and in the future in eternity.
However, we should not treat this economic growth as a race that is going to end in the next 20 years and winner takes all.
However, while the students agree that unemployment is a factor which can lead to social exclusion, they do not reject it is as either a possibility for themselves in the future (a preferred option over boring or monotonous work), or as something which alone can have a deteriorating effect upon people.
However, within a few years, ethnobotany – initially seen as an instrument that could help to salvage declining traditional knowledge and biodiversity – had simply become an instrument of theft and "biopiracy" for its critics [78 (#B78) ].
Hugh is asking that the payments end in two years, or after a trial on the couple’s divorce is held.
Human embryonic stem cells, which many scientists hope will someday lead to new therapies for a range of diseases, can be obtained only through the destruction of human embryos.
Humanity might even consider becoming someday what the astrobiologists call a type II civilization and harness all the power of the sun to support human life .
Humans have to take care in the near future aand seek new solutions that would enable us to continue living a quality life on this earth even in the future.
Humans in the future will laugh at food science textbooks from 2010.
Hummel stated this was the 1st phase of the program and modifications could be made in the future.
I DONT HAVE ANY THING ON MY CREDIT AND I WANT TO FINANCE A VEHICLE IN THE NEXT YEAR.
I Have a Dream that someday, all people worldwide hoping, dreaming, praying, visualizing, campaigning, and working for peace come together everywhere to actually celebrate peace on its international day.
I NEVER met you I NEVER in my 51 years living in America had a meeting with the 38 million other black America and elected a BLACK LEADER.
I NEVER would have guessed in a million years that it was something you found difficult or felt uncomfortable doing.
I Think there will be no more free sculptris in the future.
I accepted his offer and within 3 months was put under paid contract for several large projects lasting a couple of years.
I actually found a 3 speed manual(with everything I need to swap from auto) that will be going in within a month.
I actually hadn't run any rods in several years when I picked up a 5# box and went to town.
I agree that these actions are without justification: In ten years' time, 7 murders, 38 bombings, 146 cases of arson, and 733 acts of vandalism.
I allowed distant, fuzzy memories to dictate what I could have today and in the future – a relationship with my dad.
I almost wanted a cigarette after this one (and I haven’t smoked in 14 years).
I already have a well in my current home, but I recently found out we will have to move in the next 3 months for my husband's job.
I also agree that the church has not fulfilled the new convenant and Israel will be restored someday.
I also found and signed with a publisher in one month (see my article, Whatever It Is, Publish It Now, for details on this).
I also plan to include a 'fail safe' in case of stuck relays in the future.
I also sent in an article submission about gradient carding commercial top that I will also post in the future.
I always believed in fate, but didn't realise fate was on my side so soon, not in a million years I could have expected this.
I always thought that if a position came up within my old team within 6 months of my leaving that I would have been offered the chance to return.
I always wished they would have kept their then complete name on the debut album "Chicago Transit Authority" It made me want to get their albums in the future which were all done as numbers.
I am a dancer for Washburn University, in my 16 years of dance I have came across quite a few.
I am a strong believer in the 20 year term policy but it seems to me that with such great improvements the 30 year term policy is worth serious consideration.
I am almost totally deaf, and yes I believe this to be a gift not a hindrance in any way, people with handicaps like those listed above most of us don’t think god did this to punish us but to bless us as one of his own that will someday be with our savior in heaven.
I am at my daughter's in Florida now and will not be able to attend the services, but please know that your entire family is in my thoughts and prayers now and in the future.
I am being told now that I have to go for another ct of lung in 3 months.
I am challenged and praying about what my role will be in the future of this movement in Egypt.
I am considering pursuing an aviation career in the future.
I am curious if this has been addressed, or if you are planning on addressing this in the future.
I am currently in the planning stages of refurbishing all of my original wood double hung wood windows in my 90 year old house.
I am deciding what to use my electives on, so I am looking for information about what the best IT jobs will be in four years.
I am disappointed by Democrats who are more focused on how President Bush took America into the war in Iraq almost three years ago, and by Republicans who are more worried about whether the war will bring them down in next November’s elections, than they are concerned about how we continue the progress in Iraq in the months and years ahead.
I am going for the same best work from you in the future as well.
I am going to start doing more sexy black lingere and stocking type deals in the future.
I am hoping the same best work from you in the future as well.
I am hoping the spruce will become a Christmas tree in about seven years time.
I am joining marines in 3 years, so I don’t have to train intensely until about a year before I join.
I am just stating my stand and hope it doesn’t happen to any child in the future.
I am looking for a long team for lots more project coming in the future.
I am looking for the best price possible and may have more work in the future.
I am looking forward to allowing my patients to book their appointments in the future.
I am not fired from the Job but wherever i go the company closes down within six months.
I am not so foolish as to equate what happens under the influence of mescalin or of any other drug, prepared or in the future preparable, with the realization of the end and ultimate purpose of human life: Enlightenment, the Beatific Vision.
I am not sure I want to spend an additional $15K with the formal program, so I am probably going to reevaluate when the time comes.
I am not sure what I will be doing in a year from now, but I know for myself that I am on the right track!
I am not talking about drying, but store bought lumber that you intend to use in the next year or two or three .
I am not yet having to wear the band every day but I expect a time will come when I do - so I'll be ordering more in different colors.
I am now so proud to say that I was able to graduate in four years and have just started my irst job at an amazing company in Atlanta GA.
I am now wearing jeans that I haven't worn in 3 years.
I am personally eyeing a new MMO slated for release within the next year, which promises to focus on story line and adventuring - exactly what I am looking for.
I am pleased with your service and am sure we will be doing more business in the future.
I am praying that it may improve in the future but my expectations are not very high.
I am saying that the data already shows that we have either reached that peak or are within a few years of it.
I am sitting here preparing for the upcoming year and i see 16 running plays, i look them over to shorten the list but they are all pertinent to the series, do you think 16 run plays are too much?
I am so grateful for the manypossibilitiesthat will come my way in the next year, (or 10 years).
I am so grateful that I found your products and I will most definitely be ordering from you again in the future.
I am starting to picture my life in six month blocks.
I am still not sure why, I hope that someday Anthony will see his way to telling me…I would love to sit and talk to him.
I am sure we will work with Miklos and Pressflex again in the future.
I am sure you would rather here how you can benefit with it for your Unless you want to miss out on the most exciting information about Short Term Memory in a Decade!
I am sure, as is being claimed too, eye drops of medicines will be made in next 10 years for the once who have specs, and some genetic engineering would be available for the prospective parents also to avoid passing on of this gene to the next generation.
I am the only teacher who has spoken out for substitute staff development in the nine years that I have been here.
I am thinking of building a pool in the future.
I am thinking of taking up karate in a few months and would really love to be able to do the box splits as I know this will increase my flexibility and help my technique.
I am very open to collaborations and plan to continue working with other artists in the future.
I am very satisfied and will do business with him in the future.
I asked Harris and Goodman, who were still at Penn, if they would mind if I re-registered—I hadn’t been registered at Penn in four years.
I asked what happened and heard my husband choke up for the second time in our 9 years of knowing eachother.
I believe her instructions was to bring the dove back in a month so she could remove the splint and check the leg.
I believe it’s possible in the next 20 years for vehicles to use half the fuel and produce half the pollution that they do today  ,” said President Obama, upon introducing a campaign to extend fuel economy standards through 2025, as well as introduce the first efficiency targets for large trucks  .
I believe that enterprise dashboards will see similar usage numbers in the future.
I believe that if a leader truly wanted to do that we have the means and the resources necessary to secure our border and to protect America once and for all, and then we can get to the point in the future, only after the border is secure, that there is some type of discussion about what do we do with the approximate 13 million people who are here illegally.
I believe that in the next few years we will see that most institutions like universities and even schools will increase the online components of their teaching and in some cases have a pure online model.
I believe that the information we obtain on earth assists us in the future.
I believe this is an idea whose time will come.
I believe this is the final cleansing process and in the next six months we’ll start to come out on the other side of this.
I believe we’ll see an expansion of this technology to more public spaces in the next few years, as it is extremely useful for police when investigating crimes.
I bet North Carolina or somewhere near there is next in a decade or 3.
I bought the DVD, and I saw the movie today for the first time in around 12 years.
I bought the small (6 load)pack of these to try them out before our baby is born in several months.
I came in about 4 years ago to a new center so GSX is all I know and most center that are Brunswick have the older A2's.
I can assure you that when the time comes, my DM-10 will be replaced with a new one from Densen.
I can confirm that they have never finished above us in 137 years of professional football.
I can only hope the number of book blogs increases in the years ahead.
I can only say, thank you, thank you for being in my life, for giving me so many beautiful things, for letting me come and fight on for every day hitting bottom, and touch your heart to go slowly getting there, and not get out ever, thanks for letting me participate in your thoughts and your wishes, thanks for your honesty, for speaking truthfully, with that love that only you know me, I love you truly, and believe me these are the heartfelt words that someday you have heard or read, I want to finish telling you I require that every night before falling asleep, staying dormidita imagine you and I want to touch you, then always let my imagination a moonbeam I stroked her face softly and the same moon come to tell me you're right.
I can recall my shrink telling me that anyone who has more than 8 panic attacks in a month can be classified as having severe panic disorder.
I can see that in the future, I'm expected to accept the unacceptable.
I can see that someday in the not so distant future someone will find a handwritten letter in their attic and have to find an expert somewhere to tell them what it says.
I can tell you this, I've got two cars that need replacing in the next 6 months to a year.
I can' t tell you the number of times I' ve been asked basic stuff like This means that if you don' t believe that “Make Money With Liens” gives you all the money-making tactics you expected, I want you to send me an email so Research shows that over 98% of lien certificate holders receive payments the value of their investment within two years – and if they do not, Resources tax lien investing are scarce, and obviously so.
I can't explain why this is the case, and it doesn't mean that the fakes will not develop spots, it is simply an observation of mine that hopefully could be of use to you in the future.
I can't wait to watch me "in action" with you, and I can promise you that I will keep my membership 'up' in case you might need me in the future!
I cannot yet say when or how I shall get to work — but when the time comes I will write to you.
I checked five online suppliers for the best price, and this company was definitely the one I will order from now and, in the future.
I could get my degree in 18 months.
I could have sworn that there was already an incentive program for students to complete their degrees within 5 years.
I couldn't speak English, at first, but within a year I was able to learn it due to the extremely supportive and patient teachers and friends I made.
I decided that someday when I was an adult, I would search out others who believed as I did.
I definitely hope to see him in more starring roles in the future.
I developed a big solo project -- a trilogy that went to a respected publisher for respectable money, that got me my first solo foreign resales, and that allowed me to slow down to one book in nine months.
I did 10 plays in a year when I first started just so I could gain experience and build my resume.
I did lose 100 pounds in 2 years.
I did not buy these in bulk at the onset, because I wanted to experiment… but my wife & I are confident now so we will do so in the future.
I didn’t realize it then, but this scenario was a normal part of my life, and would be repeated many, many times in the future.
I do have my days where I think to far in the future and it totally stresses me out.
I do know that it really happen, and is probably going to keep happening in the future.
I do look forward to ordering in the future, so could you please keep in contact with me via this email.
I do not usually comment on why individual members joined us (and I usually don't know) but our Russian friend (who some of you seem to be so upset about) is hoping to move to Australia at some point in the future, which is one of the reasons he joined us.
I do see saving them though just in case anything happens in the future.
I don't expect any cure in the next decade.
I don't get the same sense in London," he said, adding that there will be "considerable pressure" on London's place as the pre-eminent centre for global financial services in 10 years' time.
I don't have that and will be paying someone when the time comes.
I don't know how to check this or how to set it up so that we can check this in the future.
I don't know what would be worse, staying a few weeks to see you, knowing the time was coming that I would lose you, or going now and trying to take all the pain at once," he near whispered in misery.
I don't know what's going to happen in the future.
I don't see any disappointment in the future with this program.
I don't wish people bad because it puts me in a bad place, but I have to admit I will likely go out of my way in the future to not help this person if they need it.
I dont exercise much so have only lost about 6 pounds in a month but I know I would probably lose more if I either excercised or backed off on the snacks more.
I don’t know if you’ve ever seen that episode of King of the Hill where Bill finds out he might have diabetes someday, and decides to call it a day and get a wheelchair because he’ll need one in the future?
I don’t overeat, I’ve never been on a diet, never gone low-carb, don’t eat any processed foods, haven’t been into a fast food restaurant in 20 years, have no health problems, take no meds or any other supplements, and swim one mile (at a quick pace) 3-4 times a week.
I don’t think I will be missing anymore art shows in the future.
I doubt I have bought a gift bag in several years.
I doubt our everyday artifacts will fare as well in the future, if there is one.
I doubt that you have any genuine evidence of this so kindly restrict your accusations of wrongdoings by CA denizens in the future.
I drive about 20,000 miles a year on average, and I expect to recover the cost in 3 years or less– The higher gas prices get, the more money the Prius will save me over an equivalent regular car.
I ended up with my first commission and had enough work to quit my job and go self-employed within six months.
I enjoyed most the carefree adventurer-narrator and would look forward to reading his exploits in the future.
I enjoyed my indoor experiences and will strive to continue to make it part of my overall skating experience in the years ahead, at least that's my intention.
I expect (and hope) in the future that genre’s like Pinky Violence and Giallo will also be seriously considered as well.
I expect that in the days and years ahead the remark "Fiat money has no place to go but gold" will resound around the world and will be a stake through the heart of the blood-sucking vampire we call central banking.
I expect to be back to smart in 3 years.
I failed to recapture that holiday magic this time, but I’m certainly going to be reviewing other items from Purdy’s in the future – without waiting for a special occasion first.
I feel a special kinship with each Beta Sigma Phi sister and hope that as our paths cross in the months and years ahead, we'll continue to have many opportunities to visit.
I feel as though I've gained 10 lbs in a month.
I feel that I am just beginning to experience the art world and will have many inspirational painters in the years ahead.
I feel the process of solving this dispute in the courts will make all the important facts known to the Crowley's and I hope we can be good neighbors in the future.
I for sure will keep my eye (or ears) for this Mamoru Miyano bloke in the future.
I found another job that pays as much as my peak salary in a few months’ time.
I gained over five pounds in a month.
I gave this as a gift to my twin three year old nephews last Christmas.
I gave up trying to become a successful writer long ago, what I have been blessed with is artists and their publicists like this, who know that when release time comes, I'll get that disc and that is special.
I got all my payments from Saphyre within 1 month although the Surf4Cash has been stopped.
I grew up always expecting that she would be dead in the next five years.
I guess Disneyland has changed a lot in 21 years.
I guess I will make the decision when the time comes.
I had 4 managers in 4 months, I was not shown a pay plan.
I had a brief coaching session with one of my subscribers, and he wanted to become the next internet home based millionaire in two years time.
I had a hard time coming up with an appetizer for this contest because, really, who eats appetizers on Thanksgiving?
I had been thinking about doing this for a while now too, integrating it into my new site design (someday I’ll finish that…).
I had never thought to do that to a man but when I took his huge head in my mouth, I knew I was going to enjoy sucking him in the future.
I had not realized until I sat down to write this reflection in honor of Pope Benedict’s election that the cardinal for whom I effectively served as an altar boy would be pope within a month.
I had seven discs that were pressing on my spinal cord due to an auto accident, and my neurosurgeon thought I’d need surgery in the future.
I had severe facial drooping which did not "wear off" in 3 months; at 3 months, however, the spasms returned.
I had such a great time being a judge on the TV show and hope there will be another one in the future.
I hadn't been there in a year and they remembered me," says Ira, who frequently received e-mails from the dean asking about his family and his degree.
I hadn't had sex in a few months and was enjoying the touch of someone else.
I hadn’t spoken to my parents in a year, and I was sure that they didn’t even know what city I was in.
I hate jogging, but faced with the challenge of running a marathon a few years back, I went out and ran 120 miles or so in two months to get ready for it.
I hate to see businesses having troubles, but expect there will be more in the future.
I have a stated target of 2,000 megawatts of additional generation from these green sources in the next three years.
I have a tiny vegetable patch in the back yard of our rental home (although I have embarked on a long-term campaign of sweet-talking my landlady in the hopes of persuading her to allow me to extend it in the future) and I have been cultivating it for less than two years.
I have almost 2000 mile in 6 months and have seen just over 100mph as I blew off some Narly Harley dudes that laughed at my ride.
I have already recommended you to two of my friends and will continue to do so in the future.
I have always been tremendously moved by your work, and hope someday, you might be able to come down to Florida.
I have always regretted my lack of knowledge at the time and wanted to avoid that ever again with another dog I would own in the future.
I have been driven by the question: what can we learn from studies of child development that will help our children thrive now and in the future?
I have been providing communication coaching for the past six months to Tien Liou, an extremely bright Taiwanese-born CEO of Kendin Communications, maker of "ethernet components for network applications," a Silicon Valley-based company that will go public within six months.
I have been thinking about it the last few days and whats beginning to form in my head is doing a book that takes about 1000 logos from the gallery, because this book would be going in 3 years after the pond started and i don't want to exhaust the clutch of logos so say next years book only has 50 logos in it i think that will work.
I have been told twice in 3 months that either medication or a prosthetic device is too expensive and I have no recourse.
I have confidence that the Australian community will not be disappointed with what the facts, rather than tired assertions, say for the state of our Army Reserve, our service now and what it will be in the future.
I have decided to try to see what I can do on the legal end of getting visitation and travel arrangements modified so that he will not have to travel alone in the future.
I have discussed elsewhere (Reference 6) a specific "alternative scenario" that keeps added climate forcing in the next 50 years at about 1 W/m2.
I have enclosed a check for twenty dollars for your wrestling team, wish you the best of luck in the future and hope that in your adult lives, you will not forget what has happened in your community.
I have enjoyed seeing the changes in the industry and continue to look forward to see what else happens to inspirational fiction in the future.
I have found so many positive things in this experience as well, andI will share those in another blog post in the future.
I have had it in the car for a long time but only 1700 miles in like 15 years and no issues, works as said and some noise.
I have had only one in over 100 boxes in 10 years.
I have had people say that they have not had their carpets cleaned in 10 years or more because they have relied on myths and misconceptions.
I have heard a lots of complaints repeated about Linux in the 12 years that I have been using Linux, and this is the first mention I have ever heard of this.
I have heard mixed reviews on the PS3 system and have not had problems with my Xbox, so, I will continue to play Halo on my XBox and relish the experience, but I look forward to playing LBP sometime in the future.
I have heard that the new employee share provisions allow employees to choose to be taxed on share or option discounts at some point in the future.
I have just put 50K on my Escape Hybrid in two years.
I have just received my third unit in 2 months and hoping that I don't have a problem with this unit.
I have little doubt that we are the only group pioneering this concept and suspect that we’ll see a lot more email specific recommendation engines in the future.
I have made good judgements in the future.
I have never been on a more "user-friendly" site in 5 years of surfing!
I have never before (in 30 years) wanted to show a picture to anyone intil now.
I have never charged to open a case, and have no plans on doing so in the future.
I have never seen them before in 18 years.
I have no other choice but to lose a job and a car in one month.
I have not exercised in 3 months, and thought trying a new game would give me the motivation to get back into exercise.
I have not had a menstrual cycle in about 4 months.
I have not had the bad experiences in doing so that others have had, so many I'll change it someday.
I have not seen, let alone talk with Dick in 6 months, maybe longer.
I have offered then - and I offer now - my sincere apologies on behalf of our local Church, and a personal pledge to each and every one of the victims and to all our faithful: We will work tirelessly and do everything within our power to prevent such incidents now and in the future.
I have only vacuumed the pool twice in the two months we have had the enclosure.
I have taken the place from 450 frames per stop to 900 to 1000 in 6 months,I am proud of myself,manager says great we don't need two mechanics at night anymore,dude is a moron lol.
I have the impression from reading so many of these messages about the future, that the author of these messages just has no idea at all what is going to happen in the future or when it will happen.
I have to assume, with all the new product they have rolling out in the next few months, that the iHP firmware (and in turn, existing customers) is not a priority at the moment.
I have to teach them in their own unique way, because to them, success might be getting the ball airborne for the first time in a year.
I haven't been injured in 10 years.
I haven't changed much in the 4 years since.
I haven't done the valves, but now I'm retired, on a pension (violins please) and with time on my hands, I shall be doing it all in the future.
I haven't gone to a Raiders game in nearly 20 years.
I haven't heard that in 6 years.
I haven't wore 32 jeans in about 20 years and still can't be live I'm dong it.
I haven’t been to the Century City Mall in several years (last time I went, Dive was still there) but I think I’ll put it on the list for the next time I’m in LA!
I haven’t bought a book on type in several years.
I haven’t bought art supplies in maybe six years.
I haven’t published it here in the past, and am not likely to do it in the future, but I write a lot.
I haven’t seen my father in 11 years.
I headed out to the community garden   Saturday for the first time in a month.
I hear that Trader Joes has plans to expand to Colorado beginning in about one year).
I heard things about a Broadway transfer in the future.
I honestly believe I will return to Iceland in the future and cannot wait for my next adventure with you!
I hope Woods campaign people have him better prepared to answer questions in the future, Woods answer were so general they sounded like they came from someone that has never been a leader.
I hope he stays that way in the future & doesnt catch any Tom-itis.
I hope in the next ten years that we will see a marked increase in the number of Chinese families wanting to adopt through the SN path.
I hope it can get updated someday.
I hope somebody asks me that someday so I can use your joke.
I hope someday information and counseling on nutrition and exercise will be available to each person struggling to break addictions and live a full, healthy life.
I hope someday soon, these companies will come stop this stupid practice.
I hope someday to say something funny enough or interesting enough that someone will make it their signature.
I hope that as we consolidate the successes of JNNURM, we would be ready in the future with other innovative schemes and policies that create opportunities from the challenges of modernization and urbanization.
I hope that in 50 years I can look back and tell my grandchildren (either in person or from the grave) that "Back in the old days we used batteries and we only got 250km's per charge!
I hope that in the future we will be able to receive comments on the blog but that doesn’t seem to be happening at the present time.
I hope that someday he will be able to pass the pocket watch to his son and on and on » Read More (/story.
I hope that someday in my lifetime there will be a better way to fight auto-immune diseases but in the meantime, this is my way.
I hope that someday someone will think of me -- anonymously or otherwise -- and feel that maybe I made a small difference for them.
I hope that the Peppers someday put it out or at least make it available on the Internet for downloads.
I hope that they come back in the future, and you all get a chance to try some of their delicious heirloom potatoes.
I hope that we will be able to sell more in the future.
I hope that you will rethink those decisions in the future after reading this blog.
I hope to be able to add this capability at some point in the future.
I hope to be able to meet you and get an autograph someday.
I hope to be able to see how a similar message might apply to other family challenges in the future.
I hope to be able to work with you someday.
I hope to be delving into the AI source code to make that happen someday.
I hope to continue to repay your interest for years to come, and, God willing, to do better in the next ten years than I have in the last.
I hope to find another lover I can trust someday.
I hope to get back to these characters again someday - I enjoyed writing them.
I hope to have the money in six months to a year or so.
I hope to have the same ability in the future…Thank you again!
I hope to look into it again sometime in the future.
I hope to meet you someday.
I hope to raise the wheel next winter or in the future.
I hope to read more reviews from you in the future!
I hope to see you around Bionic Beauty in the future!
I hope to someday have a display 1/2 as good as yours.
I hope to someday soon being doing it in my office.
I hope to work with you someday.
I hope we see more of Andrienne in the future.
I hope you are right that builders won’t try to load up dealers in the future.
I hoped in the future days, he lived happily with the girl he loved.
I imagine they’re brushing up on the close quarter drills they’ll use to get everyone safely south when the time comes.
I just wanted to add in responde to IVANA that ROSLIN was infact manipulated into the decision on abortion by BALTAR’s prophecy of the human race dying in 10 years, as well as ADAMA’s reminder to her that it was she who said, “WE NEED TO START HAVING BABIES.
I just wish they'd go about covering Drupal someday now.
I knew this cat still produced crsytals because I gave him one test again 3 years ago and the doctor told me in a grave voice that he had really bad crystals.
I know I will be buying more in the future!
I know at some point I was promoted twice in a month while at the first.
I know how narrowly a renaissance balances on the edge of a knife, and how easily dominion by self-justified oppressive elites may someday return.
I know in the future I will probably construct the posts better and do more target research on what keywords I want to target for each post, that will come as I start writing about the seminar speakers I have seen.
I know it may seem like a meaningless detail and maybe I’m the only person in the world who would get confused otherwise, but maybe I’m not and this may help to avoid a similar confusion in the future.
I know it's not fishing but since it hasn't happened in ten years I got excited.
I know it’s crazy because others review at least 4 months ahead.
I know many will benefit in the future from being able to go back and read through your very detailed accounts.
I know moderator may fix it if I give login details, but can you tell me what to do myself, as I will probably want to install plg on other add-on domains in the future.
I know my inflamation is down because I am wearing rings that I have not been able to wear in 6 years.
I know one lady, living in a magnificent house, whose life is as quiet as that of a minister should be, who has given away not less than $3,000,000 in five years, whose benefactions prior to her <PAGE 99> death will reach not less than $7,000,000, who has in her home paintings, statuary, diamonds, precious stones, exquisite specimens of gold and silver, with costly works of every imaginable art, an inside estimate of which is $1,500,000, and she is not as rich as many of her neighbors by several million dollars.
I know someday I will lose some weight!
I know that but it has never been this late, at least not in the 10 years we have had a team.
I know that there will be many more celebrations of your love and your marriage in the future!
I know that we will not be able to produce more oil in the future than we did at the peak reached in the 2005 to 2008 period.
I know that within a year after I graduated they had a program just for acupuncture but I was curious about when it came about and if you happen to know?
I know this post is a little late, but may help someone in the future.
I know whatever product you do whether it was last year, this year, in 2 years from now etc.
I know you can earn that in a month if not in less time!
I know you don't like promoting things, and I respect your modesty, but someday, I truly hope we do meet.
I learned a LOT of patience in the 3 years she was with us.
I learned more and improved my French faster in this one semester with Vincent than in all four years of high school and my college French experience.
I learned that although that Jesus taught to love one another and to not judge lest you will be judged that there will be others so hard wired into thinking evil about certain people, certain ways of thinking, and speaking, and there would be hard times coming my way when I began writing.
I like MyGuestBlog and in the future I plan to use it again.
I like them label-free, myself, although I think it would be equally wonderful if in the future they decided they are of the lesbianese persuasion.
I like to recommend Symantec and will use them again & again in the future.
I like your ideas about cheap eyeglasses  and I hope in the future there can be more bright articles like this from you.
I like your ideas about dupont-glasses  and I hope in the future there can be more bright articles like this from you.
I like your ideas about glasses online and I hope in the future there can be more bright articles like this from you.
I live Austin, TX and the flip flop is the unofficial state shoe almost year round, however, the heat and humidity here can really take a toll on the poor standard flip flop and they burn out (at least mine did) within a month of being put into use.
I look forward to doing business again in the future.
I look forward to meeting many more of you in the future.
I look forward to our paths crossing in the future.
I look forward to purchasing more products in the future.
I look forward to putting it good use in the future!
I look forward to seeing more of this kind of creativity around here in the future.
I look forward to sharing some of my insights and experiences with you all in the weeks and months ahead.
I look forward to these kinds of stories so often and hope to see more like them in the future.
I look forward to whatever happens in the future.
I look forward to working with you in the future.
I look forward to working with you more in the future!
I look forward to working with you now or in the future.
I look forward to writing a post in 10 years where I can moan about Exadata V12 boxes struggling to complete my weekly loads before the end of the weekend.
I looked at myself in the future, and being a single, older man without kids didn't seem like a desirable place to be.
I love being an active participant in the area of Unless you want to miss out on the most exciting information about Short Term Memory in a Decade!
I love mix martial arts and plan to join a fight club in Baltimore in about 4 months.
I love sleeping on my side with a body pillow to snuggle with, but most body pillows go flat within a few months.
I love the few albums they did and there are other songs to add to the list in the future.
I love the photos and hope I can visit these places someday.
I love your poetry and I plan to use it in my classroom someday.
I may add similar quotes in the future.
I may create another new membership site in the future with a lot of really cool features.
I may have to give that place a call when the time comes.
I may post something in the future about creating a similar tree from a database result though.
I may publish the song onto YouTube   in the future.
I may sell them in the future to raise money for the Hawkesbury Classic  , but for now I’m giving three stickers away for the best tshirt slogan ideas.
I met Kevin a year ago when my mother was in the hospital with breast cancer.
I might add this onto my list of games to get in the future.
I might bring back the lifetime account in the future, but ill need to make it more clear what all the account types are and what you get with each account.
I might need it someday.
I must admit that this summer was not the most active for our development team so far, but we are making significant progress, and in a month or so should be able to show you much more of what we actually got.
I must try to make this bread someday… it’s just that, well… sometimes yeast breads are intimidating.
I myself have observed many of the elders sitting inside or outside shops in the Chitral bazaar, they deserved a much better place than this where there would be facilities for regular monthly medical checkups for them, different kinds of books for them to read, a sitar to play with whenever they feel like doing it, exposure visits can be arranged for them, they can be taken for afternoon walks by the volunteers, where there would be a proper heating arrangements for them in the winters, pick and drop to and from the center, where the youth can visit them and benefit from their life experiences and radio Chitral once in week if not possible once in a month broadcast an interview of one of the elders on regular basis, these are just to name a few facilities that would be available at the sitting place.
I need help to pay for server costs and in the future we could use a better server to stop the ongoing website problems.
I never in 35 years had encountered a U.
I never in a million years ever thought it would change but it has.
I never in a million years imagined I would be facing a surgery of this magnitude, but in life we don’t always get to chose the direction it takes us in.
I never seen that in my 51 years.
I now feel that I have closed off upgrade options, other than the DNRG at some point in the future.
I now make more in a day than my dad made in a month and that included overtime.
I often hear people talking about their expected income for the next day, weeks or months ahead.
I only connected with it in the sense that "wow, I wonder if I could ever get to the point where I could read this language someday".
I perceived that the country from its very constitution, could not fail of affording in a few years, a larger proportionate amount of readers than any >>country<< upon the Earth.
I personally don't eat them, there not like yabbies which grow to full size in one year.
I plan on ordering more in the future.
I plan on using a scope in the future when I'm shooting long range.
I plan to get myself some proper chef lessons someday.
I plan to offer some more prizes in the future, but I’ll most likely do it via a separate form.
I plan to spend in one month, I pay for my flight PELL my money and I need to know if this is true.
I play games lol but i had played piano when i was quite young ,but really wanted to learn Guitar someday.
I predict that the online world will mimic the real world: in the next years we will have global, regional and local businesses offering all kinds of online logistics services: telcos, mobile operators, ISP’s, hosting providers, CDNs, technology vendors.
I probably won't buy any shirts in the next 3 months.
I probably won't see her again until she gets back in five months.
I promise to take a better look at what’s inside in the future.
I put 2000 bucks into the motor within 2 months and a total of about 4500 bucks since I've owned it.
I put together a list of tasks and the sub-tasks in the order they had to occur and a schedule which would get the job done in 4 months over the winter.
I raise chickens in my backyard for eggs and meat and when the time comes to kill some of them to eat, I do it myself.
I read all 18 of those books in 2 years.
I read all of The Series of Unfortunate Events books within a month, I'd say.
I read an article saying that HTC Android are showing statistics that would make their phones the #1 in the world within the next few years.
I read recently that George Bush has seen to the execution of more men on his watch than any other president in 75 years.
I read that chapter because if I am going to be honest before the Lord and say I have read through the Bible in a year I have to read that chapter.
I realize that internet Joe Smo gets a better deal that a three time in four year buyer, but for the life of me I dont understand that.
I realized then how much my rock hounding eye has improved in the two years since I have begun rock hounding.
I really appreciate all the work you have put into this project, quickbox will be one of my most used libraries in the future.
I really did not mean to cause a “stir” by this—and will refrain from offering that type of advice in the future.
I really hope to see more of this type of event in the future.
I recently created an opt-in group for my site that will be used to communicate things in the future.
I recently stumbled upon your blog, and I’m happy to hear that you are still going strong… and plan to go stronger in the future.
I recommend them to everyone and will only use them in the future for all my sites.
I regret to say that this is the first year in about four years that I didn’t get to take a photo with her.
I remember a friend telling me I should go out on at least one date with that person since after all, I have never been on a date before in my 40 years of life.
I remember reading about how Vietnam's economy had been so distorted during the war that the hookers earned more in a day than a university professor in a month.
I retire in 11 years.
I return with enthusiasm, with joy and with an eye focused in the future; a future with many opportunities, many doors, many options from where to choose from.
I saved more than $1,000 for my company in 6 months, by finding and correcting registration forms.
I saw your post on atricle writing Eamon and i’ll be using your method in the future.
I see more crowded main lanes in the future.
I sent the hiring manager a courteous e-mail requesting feedback so as to be a better candidate for similar positions in the future.
I shall be reading more in the future and coming back to check out those pieces I missed.
I sincerly hope you look back at this experience sometime in the future as a happy one and enjoy the game!
I smile because I haven't dated a white guy in about 4 years; I just don't find light skinned blondes all that attractive.
I so enjoyed every bit of this site and I've bookmarked your blog to keep up with the new topics you will post in the future.
I spoke to that it was a common complaint, so hopefully they will make models without the grooves at some point in the future.
I started looking at it about a year ago and have not seen it in about six months.
I started training and selling horses and surprisingly enough that has enabled me to get my head above water for the first time in 3 years.
I stepped on the scale one morning to see the cold hard numbers: I had gained 20 pounds in two years.
I still can't believe what a wonderful experience it was, and I look forward to seeing everyone again in two years, if not before.
I still have my lessons tucked away back in the back of my desk with the intention of someday starting it up again.
I strongly suggest you find a more reliable source for your medical information in the future.
I suggest that you consider a clinic at some point in the future.
I suppose if design is "thinking ahead to avoid problems in the future", I am anti-design.
I suppose if the 12V in-car charger that came with the unit dies or gets lost someday, the car charger will become useful.
I suppose in 15 years or so I might crack one open and make sure it is still edible.
I suppose in a few years I’ll have to wear reading glasses with my contacts.
I suppose it’s also open the door for a black or female or black female James Bond to be cast sometime in the future.
I suspect I had the same problem as you, and would like to avoid it happening again in the future (I'm in the process of rebuilding my CactiEZ VM now).
I swear you teach me something new every time I come here.
I then ask, “Why someday?
I then started on the wheatgrass spray and by let me say within about 3 month every last one was gone.
I think Apple will need to open things up in the future once there are viable competitors, but not until.
I think I will check out this test, in a month or so.
I think I will give this due consideration before my time comes.
I think about how my house might look in 10 years and shudder.
I think if I was to design one myself then I'd set in the future.
I think industrial production would have carried the day, although without the other two factors it would have been a long time coming.
I think it certainly will be someday.
I think it is critical to have a strong background in business, leadership, and involvement in this community to face the budget shortfalls we are going to see in the future.
I think it would be fun to be in one someday.
I think it's his best album in 8 years easily but if Jek don't like it, nothing I can do about it really.
I think it's possible in the future that the Shambhala tradition will even spread back to Tibet and China.
I think it’s fair to say that my FJR1300 won’t be riding on the OEM Bridgestones in the future.
I think maybe within the next 50 years all will come to light.
I think one problem is that it isn't possible to predict exactly how parameter values will change in the future so it's better to use a range.
I think that I’ve mentioned that I am planning to try to get permission to use some indie musicians recordings for these bike trail videos in the future but I have not had the time to search and select the material yet so I am still stuck with the same old music (my own) that I’ve been doing on all of the videos so far.
I think that anybody who misunderestimates this president is going to have egg on their face in a few years.
I think that in the future they’re going to look for opportunities to challenge American power and hegemony around the world.
I think that in the future this should be the procedure of selecting contestants, DVD recordings do not give you the full picture.
I think that it’s a real possibility that in 10 years, general purpose computers will be seen as being strictly for developers and hobbyists.
I think that was the most heartbreaking experience in my 25 years.
I think there might be a comparison to be done in the future between how these commenters treat the alleged crimes against human beings of 'our boys' in Iraq and Afghanistan, and how the alleged crimes against swans of 'Eastern Europeans' are dealt with.
I think this is bad news as I can see rescue/rehoming centres full of these pigs in the future because they dont stay cute,small piglets for long.
I think this will be a huge oppotunity in the next 10 years, as people and companies alike realize that computer science is not what they signed up for.
I think those words – whether or not they were true – helped me in the difficult months ahead, as we got her diagnosis and fretted over the future, as I suffered a painful postpartum and through the depression, as she was born average size but grew more slowly than other babies, as she turned her head the first day home and smiled early on and clapped for me every morning once she learned how.
I think timberland mens womens shoes  must be your friends with you one day in the future.
I think timberland mens womens shoes must be your friends with you one day in the future.
I think you will see more of that type of communication in the future.
I thought it would a good time to review some of the major events of the past year, and look forward to the year ahead.
I thought of this crowd of suicides: more than eight thousand five hundred in one year.
I thought the answer to this might lead me to find another one someday.
I told them that I hoped that they enjoyed their bit of freedom, and that if they behaved better in the future they wouldn't have to endure such an ordeal.
I took tap dance as a child, and started again about 2 years ago.
I treated my iPad like an oversized iPod and loaded just about every song that I might want to listen to someday onto my iPad – but the only songs that I listened to were my top rated songs.
I tried it because I am diabetic and post menopausal, and gained 55 lbs in 3 years even though I was low carb dieting at about 1500 calories the entire time.
I truthfully believe this method would work and also in the future this technology could be in place and more “plug devices” built and sitting “on call” just in case this event ever happened again.
I try to remind us both really, of why we’re separated [and in one month I can officially file for divorce].
I turned one in two months ago, and haven't heard from them (to be fair, I haven't called them up to follow up).
I turned to the bully with a look of amazement as he said 'That's physics that is mate, You'll learn that in a few years' and with that the stone thrower strolled off.
I understand that we have been eating cooked food for thousands of years, but intelligence must come to bear someday.
I use 2 b able 2 do the box splits when i was in 7 years old, i was into gym heaps nd then dancing became more apart of my life!
I use the computer a lot, but having the book allows one to muse over ideas and details at bedtime, over coffee or whatever, and also can be set right out in the work area when the time comes.
I used the compressor for a total of maybe 9 or 10 small DIY projects around the house in the six months I have had it.
I very much look forward to working closely with Susan and her European and Asian counterparts in the months ahead.
I very much love kids and I dream to have them in the future marriage.
I wanna live at the beach someday.
I wanna return back there someday.
I want them to understand that the more things change, the more they stay the same, and that we’ll need to keep one eye focused on Russia as we move forward in the years ahead.
I want to become a GMA artist someday.
I want to believe there is hope in the future, there is relief when I get older, and there is confidence of my eternity.
I want to continue to push myself in the next ten years and not get bored with myself, I love getting up in the morning and asking myself "what do I wanna say today?
I want to dance someday at their weddings and to meet my future grandchildren.
I want to get back there someday and improve on my time.
I want to get to bed more rapidly, but I can't get to sleep until my old-fashioned bed time comes a couple hours later.
I want to have it handy should I need it sometime in the future and when I am done I am content.
I want to lose 10-15kg in the next few months and so I signed into a fitness studio nearby.
I want to meet him someday and willing to get to know me better.
I want to play in the NFL someday, that’s always been my dream.
I want to share my vision for the Secretary of State's role in the future of Vermont.
I want to teach at a community college in the future so I would like to get a job, any job, at one now.
I wanted something neutral because I knew I was going to have more kids in the future so I didn't want to get a bunch of girly stuff and have to get all new things if I had a boy later.
I was a beginner, but I'd hope to do more advanced abseiling in the future and go straight the bigger cliffs.
I was also hoping within the 3 months i was there my fiancee would have the interview and we all would be traveling back to Australia with me.
I was also thinking of putting up a strategy section on the manual page in the future that would be a perfect place to publish guides like this, if approved by the writers of course.
I was immersed in the process of learning and writing about nutrition and exercise, continually trying to apply the principles to myself, but still thinking I could someday drink like a normal person.
I was really starting to worry about the possibility of one day in the future wanting to expand sites.
I was then told that conceiving naturally someday may be difficult.
I was told this by a knowledgeable source, passed it on to a neighbor whose cat was bleeding because it was scratching itself so much, and she reports the change in food cleared the problem up in the one month she's been doing it.
I wasn't waking up in the middle of the night tossing and turning, and for the first time in 20 years, I was able to get a full night's rest.
I went in the order of 5 months with not a single morning off from work or college (I be always any one, somedays both) and now that my rota has changed (I hold more time) I want to sleep all the time.
I went outside for a run yesterday, for the first time in about 4 months.
I went to the Burj Dubai and filmed the construction and then again six months later.
I will absolutely deal with this company again in the future.
I will advise you on what needs to be done now and in the future, and rather than withhold the information I am a librarian of information so any queries you may have in regards to marketing on the world wide web I should be able to answer for you either for your current or future web projects.
I will also continue to work on my first book and, with any luck, get it published sometime within the next year or two.
I will always salute all that have served, do serve and will serve in the future and thier families.
I will always salute all that have served, do serve and will serve in the future.
I will be commenting on the ideas of this article in the future.
I will be ready to be fully alive and available for Love when - sometime in the future, when I get there.
I will be using again in 6 months.
I will certainly recommend flatrate to any friends that are moving in the future.
I will definitely be ordering more things from you in the future now that I know you really care and are very patient with your customers.
I will definitely be there in the future.
I will definitely let you all know if I do in the future!
I will definitely recommend A1 to friends, and will use your services again in the future.
I will definitely use Amazon in the future as I can buy with confidence that you take care of things.
I will do better in the future.
I will do business with this seller again in the future.
I will follow up with more information in the future.
I will go over it when time comes.
I will go the rechrome route in a few years when i am ready for it.
I will have additional contests in the future, so please check back for those and more great fantasy sports content.
I will have the balance paid of within 12 months and do not plan to use it any other time.
I will inform my family and friend and all the American people via the internet, blogs, angie’s list and LinkedIn so that all is aware the way this bank operates and does business, so that hopefully in the future no one is treated this way again especially if you have great credit and are applying for a smaller mortgage, 20% down payment, existing customer no late payments etc.
I will know in a few months if they are worth the money.
I will leave you with this for now, but will be back with more in the future.
I will look at Kenneth Cole sunglasses again in the future.
I will make a speaker calibration tutorial video some time in the future, unless someone beats me to it!
I will make sure that I recommend you all to my friends who get marry In the future.
I will not buy from this seller in the future.
I will probably buy the matching rear disc kit in the future but i'll see how the 914 discs pull up!
I will save 10 times the cost of this course in six months of implementation of these systems.
I will someday.
I will soon be out of business, probably in about two years.
I will take a little risk in exchange for a chance of economic freedom someday.
I will talk to these employees about whether they will still have jobs in six months.
I will visit London someday, after all it is CLOSE to the home of the Beatles–aye mate!
I wish my big china only agency could get us over in 1 month, but now it has been 5 weeks since referral and still no end in sight.
I wish the Producers Guild of India and the Music Industry could get together to prevent such legal action in the future,” says Apurv Nagpal, Managing Director, Saregama.
I wish the sticky pads were larger, but I could always get larger pads if it becomes an issue in the future.
I wish we have more triple D gals who are like this in the future because I think this is the future direction of big tits porn.
I wish you good luck in the future!
I wish you the best of health, wonderful opportunities and more promising years ahead.
I wonder if in 50 years our children will be regretting how their children never learned to type on a keyboard.
I wondered what else he had taught her, maybe our sex will be more fun in the future!
I would LOVE to someday compete, but more importantly, I would simply like to learn how to dance!
I would ask that you make it a personal goal to convince one person to join the AUC within the next three months.
I would be happy to have list of top korean lovestory movies to watch in the future.
I would be happy to pay a reasonable amount for this product if you decide to go shareware in the future (also, see problem "1" above, I would like to donate, but feel "iffy" about doing so if I can't really understand the page I'm looking at.
I would definitely go back there again in the future.
I would do both create a material number for consistency and the replenishment of equipment in the future and also assign it a unique equipment master record number.
I would hate to spend that kind of time writing software for a hardware product that may not be available in 1 year or so.
I would have never imagined that the current events going down would have ever happened, not in a thousand years.
I would like to have my wedding banquet there when I get marry in the future.
I would like to see the legislature focus on solving existing human rights problems and preventing human rights problems from happening in the future.
I would love an M (though pricy) but I know that in the next few months they will be putting in the v8 that will go into all Ms.
I would love to do an Audiobook someday and if you can't do dialogue, you can't do an Audiobook.
I would love to read more posts from you in the future.
I would love to work with you someday.
I would much prefer writing a book from which people can still get pleasure in five years' time or ten years' time, because they can go to the library or a bookstore and get a paperback edition.
I would not be surprised, in a few years, to find that I enjoy them even more.
I would not have expected so much to happen in only one year.
I would really like to come out and train at ATT again in the future if possible, next time I will certainly stay much longer.
I would recommend this product, and because of this watch I will buy Skagen in the future.
I would recommend to change templates in the future.
I would recommend you guys to anyone I know that is moving and will certianly use you all when I move myself in the upcoming months.
I would say to anyone in a similar situation, just be patient and that time will come - and it feels so good.
I would suggest in the future to read the directions on the back of every product, no matter what someone says.
I wouldn't have guessed in a million years that the initials "CT" stood for one of my greatest heroes.
I wouldn't have picked anything off that presidential shelf of my own volition in a million years, even though the Peace Corps is truly a fascinating subject.
I wrote about his implication that the Vanguard 500 fund would do in the next 26 years what it had done in the last 26, which is go up 20 times or 2,000%!
I'd like to write a couple scripts and do a little computer animation in the future.
I'll ask the developers to improve IT to prevent such problems in the future.
I'll be back in one month or two with great news.
I'll be ordering more in the future too.
I'll be sharing ALL of the secrets that I used to make my $7 million in 7 years, so that you can make yours!
I'll be taking the MSF BRC within the next month and will hopefully buy a bike shortly afterwards.
I'll do a write up someday soon.
I'll get there someday.
I'll have to try that someday.
I'll put a post in a month or so to give a proper post-release report and I'll be in a position to give figures on income for that too .
I'll see if I can work on this in the future.
I'll still be writing in five years, and in ten years -- that's the biggest part of my plan, and whatever changes I have to make to make that true, I'll make.
I'll try to support a few more Emacs-alike bindings in the future to make it a bit more usable, but I think it's already pretty decent.
I'm 99% sure that Chunklet's going to be doing something with them in the next month, but I've gotta clear a few projects off my plate before I even consider it.
I'm a real estate agent in NYC servicing Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Bronx if I can be of any assistance in the future.
I'm afraid it might die in a year like many other's experiences with it but I will try to keep it out of sunlight.
I'm curious, sir, you've said you expect unemployment to reach 10 percent in the next month or so.
I'm definitely ready for my snack when the time comes, but I never feel physically deprived.
I'm enjoying this online food appreciation community Salem Man has created and hope to see more participation in the future.
I'm going to be using a lot more of this stuff in the future!
I'm going to look into the club rego for my 400F when the time comes too.
I'm going to work hard, honey, and someday we're going to be rich.
I'm hoping that Andy Carroll will continue his development and not go the way of Ameobi, as I think he'd be a good player for England in the future (probably not in time for the Euro's though).
I'm hoping to someday do a complete cookbook, but for now.
I'm in a serious relationship also and I'm learning game to improve confidence and teach my sons in the future so they don't have to go through what I went through.
I'm just saying, I don't know about you, but I would demand a lower price if I knew that the extent of my view in several years was a hotel room.
I'm looking at moving up there (from Phx) within a few years!
I'm looking forward to graduating from college in a few years because that will earn me access to over $500,000 in additional trust money.
I'm moving to North Carolina in a few months, so I'm not looking for anything serious.
I'm not actually a part of either clan, though I was whitelisted for joining the DitRII contest, and I'll be posting a log here (and probably more in the future, so long as I'd be welcome to), so I figured I'd drop in and say hi.
I'm not quite sure what other players besides these two from the world juniors, but they should be a fun team to watch in the future.
I'm not sure yet how it will develop in the future, but we'll try a few things, and see what works.
I'm now in the six month of Warfarin and my leg is the same as it was after six weeks, ie.
I'm off warfarin now and all my thrombophilia screening was negative, so its just a case of trying to keep wearing the stockings and drinking cranberry juice now, in the hope of not being one of the 20% to recur within 5 years.
I'm sure I'll be introducing some of them on this blog in the future.
I'm sure I'll find something that matches someday!
I'm sure most are up-and-comers who will someday be widely recognized.
I'm sure that when we return in a few years a home will be on the spot and the owls will be homeless.
I'm surprised they aren't releasing a pan-and-scan DVD first, followed by a widescreen 4x3 transfer a few months later, and then an anamorphic transfer in a year's time.
I'm very pleased with them and will be looking to buy more in the future.
I'm willing to get up everyday and work my hardest knowing that someday I might be able to save someone's life.
I'm working on graduating in 3 years and then I planto get my masters in business.
I've been in four years and I just started working on GBD and MS this last weekend.
I've found it's a good thing to do since computer products change so rapidly within a one year time span.
I've gained 1 size within two months!
I've got free time coming out of every orifice until uni starts.
I've heard tales of the alloy ones cracking around the bottom bolt holes and I sure as hell can't be bothered to sort that out in the future so I'll be sticking with steel!
I've learned to seek support from my peers in therapy, and I hope someday to return that support to others who are seeking help.
I've never used and image with that tag, but if I encounter it in the future I know that I'll handle it correctly.
I've not had any problems with these boots in the nearly 5 years I've used them.
I've only watered that pot twice in three months and somehoe they're hanging on.
I've published articles on medicine, I currently lecture medical students at Newcastle University, I've delivered papers at, among other things, a conference of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, last year I presented a detailed report to the Science and Technology Committee of the House of Lords, I shall be delivering a paper at a seminar at Salford University in a few months, and this year I shall be publishing a compilation on health care problems.
I've put together a short Google Forms survey on Transfer  to get some consolidated feedback from the community at large on what people are doing with Transfer, what features they want in the future, and what can be done to improve it overall.
I've seen many of my students get bored and frustrated with the guitar within a few months simply because they had an unsuitable guitar.
I've seen others do it in the 6 years I've been involved just to get endorsed.
I've watched her get sober, relapse, get sober, a halfdozen times in ten years, each time we've scratched a little deeper, each time she's let me see another layer of her complex relationship with her family, village, the children she keeps shitting out on a regular basis, to have them taken from her by white people who scold her and preach and do their damndest to fix her brokenness.
IATA is challenging the whole aviation sector to build and operate a commercial airline that produces no net carbon emissions within 50 years from 2007.
IMEC's research runs 3 to 10 years ahead of industrial needs.
IN THE 9 MONTHS HE WAS INSIDE ME HE TAUGHT ME HOW TO LOVE SO DEEPLY AND I THANK HIM EVERYDAY I LIVE FOR THAT LIFELONG LESSON.
IN about 30 years our kids will read a new kind of books and ours will be considerd plodding.
IN one month my cholesterol was in normal lmits.
IN the future, no matter what you decide to do, be sure to at least get copies of all labs, usualy the lab will have a form to fill out to allow them to release to the patient, the lab should also provide copies of past results upon request, you do not have to go through the doctor for this.
INCENTIVES for households and businesses to install solar panels have been slashed by more than a third in four months.
INTERVIEW-Pakistan does not need FY08/09 loan - IMF official  , By Koh Gui Qing, August 17, 2008 (Reuters website) - Pakistan does not need to turn to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for money in the next 10 months if the government cuts spending and gets other sources of funding to offset falling reserves, a senior IMF official said.
IPOs climbed to the highest level given 2007, and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index posted its biggest monthly benefit in a year in July.
IRAQI PRESIDENT: AMERICAN TROOPS WILL NOT BE NEEDED IN TWO YEARS (id43.
IRC section 6404(g) provides for a suspension of interest if the Secretary fails to notify the taxpayer regarding a liability within an 18 month period (12 month period for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2004 ) from the later of the return filing date (without regard to extensions) or the date of a timely filed return.
ITS OUR 5 YR ANNIVERSARY IN A MONTH AND I DONT KNOW WHAT TO DO!
Iberostar Hotels & Resorts have been honored with the Crystal Award for Best Hotel Chain three years in a row, selected by past Apple Vacationers!
Ideally, car makers will want to switch to using "direct" TPMS in the future such that the pressure on all 4 tires are checked electronically and displayed on the dash board by pushing a button.
Identify where it makes sense to partner, have discussions, and put a process in place that says here is where we will be in 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, and beyond.
If 47 million wasn’t a typo, you did better in 7 years than I previously thought Adrian, lol.
If 50 people respond, chances are that we won’t even ask you to foster five dogs in a year.
If Brown sells the park within the next ten years, he agrees to pay Ms.
If Business Users believe the process of JAD is a highly productive exercise for them, they will be even more supportive of using the technique in the future and more enthusiastic to participate in development projects.
If China does continue to prosper, as you think it will, then we're STILL on the ground floor of some major price increases in the future.
If Company B does not indicate its intention to purchase the said shares within 6 months of the offer given by Company A, then Company A can dispose of its equity shares in the open market in accordance with the directions that might be given by local authorities in this regard.
If I can write a 50,000 word Novel in a month, then can I make a success of myself as a Game developer?
If I ever have a custom flash project in the future, they will be the first company I call.
If I get bored in the future I'd like to dig it out and try to get it to work again.
If I have learned anything in the seven years since I first stepped foot into the classroom as a teacher, it is that there is always something more important and foundational than what I think is at any given moment.
If I may be of further assistance to you in the future, please do not hesitate to contact me again.
If Iran’s government changed and became democratic, this spiritual hunger would die down within six months to one year.
If Jesus does not return within 50 years then we must still have a deliverer.
If You Buy a Used Car: If — with the help of an auto loan — you buy a four-year-old used car for $8,000, put down $1,000, and pay it off in three years, your average monthly ownership cost will be $63 for a total of $8,632 for a 10-year period.
If a brand new Coach just starting out was able to sponsor 1 new Coach each month, and teach all of their Coaches to do the same, and have them do the same, within a year they would be making a whole lot of money.
If a client writes data to the server with the stable argument set to UNSTABLE and the reply yields a committed response of DATA_SYNC or UNSTABLE, the client will follow up some time in the future with a COMMIT operation to synchronize outstanding asynchronous data and metadata with the server's stable storage, barring client error.
If a company's board has not committed to dividend payments in the future, the latest reported dividend rate equals the total dividends paid in the past 12 months.
If a homeowner successfully closes a short sale, he or she will be eligible for a Fannie Mae backed mortgage again in two years—as opposed to a foreclosure, which will cause you to wait at least five years.
If a player plays around 500 Full tilt poker games in a month he needs to pay $1 as the rake amount for each game.
If a premium Bridgestone-brand medium commercial truck tire becomes unusable before wearing to 2/32˝ remaining tread depth within seven years from the date of manufacture, BFNT will credit the owner $130.
If all goes as planned, Americans will receive better and more cost-effective health care in the future.
If all goes well, the crawl toward commercialization within a decade or so could begin.
If all resources are devoted to the production of food, clothing, houses, entertainment, and other consumer goods, and none to research, development, and accumulating capital, there will be no more capital and no better technologies in the future than exist at present.
If and when that time comes for you, someone else will be taking care of your financial matters.
If anything, those connections to France and Portugal -- which will allow Spain as well as Portugal to access and sell gas in Continental Europe -- will enable LNG to expand its strategic importance in the Iberian Peninsula in the next decade.
If at some point in the future, there is a change to our information usage practices that affect your personal information, we will post these relevant changes on the Site.
If births occurred in one year and were filed in another, the birth year could be recorded wrong.
If city and state leaders are as serious as President Obama about doubling renewable energy generated in America in three years, they should consider that $500 million – less than one percent of the total package – as only a down payment.
If confirmed by further research, it might someday be possible to reduce the prevalence of cardiovascular disease by adding a little of this essential fatty acid to the diet in the many countries where intake of fish containing long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, and vegetable oils containing alpha-linolenic acid is low, as it is in Costa Rica, Ms.
If every Canadian boy’s dream is to play in the NHL someday, then it’s hard to see how a video game can empty the void of never realizing that dream.
If everyone wants their sports/entertainment event to have train service during their event, perhaps the organisers should have looked at the railcorp calendar a year ahead.
If everyone would at least try to use cloth or even just use them 25-50 percent of the time, your baby’s bottom would be chemical free, have fewer rashes and there will be less possible side effects in the future to worry about.
If everyone would do this, we’d have the whole mess cleaned up within a few years.
If everything works according to plan, agriculture will become a valuable source of income in the future.
If for any reason the product proves to be defective within one year from the date of purchase ship the unit to CRYSTAL QUEST® and the entire system will be repaired or replaced without charge or your money will be refunded.
If his witnesses have not appeared within the six months, he is an evil-doer, and shall bear the fine of the pending case.
If history repeats itself and the trend continues, you'll most likely be experiencing Winter in the next few months and then Spring right after that.
If in the future the “Registered Traveler Program” provides an overall benefit to all of our passengers, we will take another look at the program.
If it actually pays for itself in 5 years everyone should be willing to do it.
If it’s a small amount, they usually get it paid within a few months.
If it’s still there in a year, and I still need it, I’ll buy it.
If jpype someday supports inheritance from java classes this could be a way to go.
If life expectancy were 88 (and it would only reach that point in several decades) would it not follow that a 65 or 70 year-old person would be healthier than his counterpart in 1990?
If mankind doesn't address this problem, then perhaps in the future "the dominant species that replaces us in postpocalyptic Earth just might wonder, as they gaze upon our mounted skeletons in their natural history museums," writes Tyson, "why large headed Homo Sapiens fared no better than the pea-brained dinosaurs.
If my battery fails in the next three years, my US$30 SquareTrade warranty will cover either its replacement – or a new Kindle3.
If no books are purchased in a month, there is no utility from books.
If not, all these articles will come available online over the month ahead, and we’ll post them on the Alliance blog  as they do.
If one wants to be married within 2 years, then should approach dating accordingly.
If our Privacy Policy changes in the future, we shall send you a revised statement of policy.
If our information practices change at some time in the future we will post the policy changes to our Web site to notify you of these changes and provide you with the ability to opt out of these new uses.
If our information practices change at some time in the future we will post the policy changes to our Web site to notify you of these changes and we will use for these new purposes only data collected from the time of the policy change forward.
If our information practices change at some time in the future we will post the policy changes to our web site to notify you of these changes and provide you with the ability to opt-out of these new uses.
If people like the game I would be releasing the advanced version in the future.
If recent growth rates of these GHGs were to continue, the added climate forcing in the next 50 years would be about 1.
If shingles are required in a few years new on the roof, to have solar panels that add a significant cost for this job?
If so, play a big part in the future of the ceramics profession by getting involved in ACerS President’s Council of Student Advisors (PCSA).
If so, then I know what it is, experience it often and will recognize it in the future.
If someone from 20 years in the future saw a picture of someone taken from 2000 to 2009 could the same be said?
If study different level class in one year, tuition reference to short-term cost of tuition fee.
If such creditor wishes to have the shareholder who received the payment for shares return it and also be liable to him for the returned payment, he shall file a claim within one year from the date of registration of reduction of capital.
If sufficient student levels in the future allow the Edmonds School District to open a public school in the neighborhood, the City will work with the District to find another site not so close to the freeway.
If the Fund and the withdrawing member do not reach agreement within six months of the date of withdrawal, the currency in question held by the Fund shall be paid forthwith to the withdrawing member.
If the Fund's holdings of the currency of a withdrawing member exceed the amount due to it, and if agreement on the method of settling accounts is not reached within six months of the date of withdrawal, the former member shall be obligated to redeem such excess currency in gold or, at its option, in the currencies of members which at the time of redemption are convertible.
If the Lakers can stave off their Western competitors and make it to a fourth Finals in four years, this will truly be Kobe’s shining moment.
If the SSA's economic forecasts are more realistic, then there's no reason to believe that stocks in the future will average 7% returns.
If the State Historical Resources Commission approves the idea at a meeting in Sacramento today, it would be a victory for scientists who want to build support for having Tranquility Base designated a United Nations World Heritage Site in advance of what they believe will be unmanned trips to the moon by private groups, and even someday by tourists.
If the battery needs to remain idle in a month or a longer time,remove the battery out of the computer,charge it to 60%-80%and store it in a dry.
If the breakthroughs of recent years are anything to go by, it is likely that we will see several-fold longevity increases in mice within the next decade or so.
If the company failed to comply with the request within one month from the date of the notice or the remainder of the limitation under paragraph two is less than one month, said shareholder or shareholders may make such claim for the company and Section 85 paragraph two (2) and paragraph three shall apply mutatis mutandis.
If the dandidate fails the THCI test, he/she may retest within one year at no additional cost.
If the expiration is not completed within five years, the liquidator shall submit a report describing the reasons therefore every three months, and the Registrar shall have powers to order the liquidator to act in any way to reasonably accelerate the liquidation.
If the hubs/bolts are returned to us intact within the four month period the complete $800 deposit is returned.
If the liquidation cannot be concluded within one year from the date of registration of the dissolution of the company has been accepted by the Registrar, the liquidators shall convene the meeting of shareholders every year within four months from the date ending the year's period for report on the liquidation work that has been carried and to be carried out and submission of the balance sheet and profit and loss account for the information of the shareholders.
If the members involved do not otherwise agree, the member obligated to redeem shall complete redemption within five years of the date of distribution, but shall not be required to redeem in any half-yearly period more than one-tenth of the amount distributed to each other member.
If the old paper documents are scheduled to be destroyed sometime in the future, only scan documents that are used frequently.
If the other planet's civilization was a million years ahead of us, what could they POSSIBLY learn from such a primitive civilization as ours?
If the project is to be developed in stages, the applicant must begin and substantially complete the development of each stage within three years of the time provided for the start of construction of each stage in the development agreement.
If the test is successful, McDermott hopes "it is an idea that homeowners can use [in their own gardens] in the future.
If the time comes when we have fewer international priests, or if there is a further priest shortage, then parts of the plan could go into effect.
If the time comes when we must resort to violence to restore our republic, I will be in the vanguard, but until that time comes, I will dedicate my life - as my father dedicated his life - to using the Constitution, and the rights and limits it illuminates, as the most powerful weapon for preserving it and the republic.
If the trend endures unabated, 60 per cent of all groundwater aquifers would be in a critical state in 20 years.
If the two of you were born within a year or so of each other, the position of the planets in your composite chart are in pretty much the same zodiacal positions as in your natal charts.
If the work was commercially published within 75 years of the end of the calendar year in which it was made, Crown copyright will last for 50 years from the end of the calendar year in which it was published.
If there are to be more of us in the future, living in the United States, we will simply need more energy.
If there is no response to the confirmation message, either an accept or a decline, within three months then ContactClean.
If there's one thing I've learned [in 30 years] it's that you can't bail; you have to fight for people to get into it.
If these people are not replaced, in 10 years the size of government will be cut in half.
If these two behavior changes were to occur, Americans would gain nearly four years of life.
If they are impressed by your free product there is a high chance they'll buy your other products in the future.
If they are not prepared to make plans, find out where things might be going for them in the future.
If they can help you to manage your credit it would absolutely be a assistance for you in the future.
If they can make 30, 40, 50, or 60%+ in one year, Who am I to say I can do better?
If they can’t, you can easily track the click-through rate yourself to determine if you want to continue advertising on that list in the future.
If they commit to a vision of the company only 8-12 quarters away, real plans will need to be underway within a few months just to be on track.
If things don’t pick up in the next few months I just may toss this venture in the “tried, moved on” pile or I will just offer it for sale to whoever want to take it over.
If this changes in the future, we will investigate this as an additional method of synchronization.
If this date/time is in the future, any request for this servlet will return an SC_SERVICE_UNAVAILABLE error.
If this debut date is true then it will arrive almost a month ahead of the Geneva Motor Show.
If this item is not sold we may not relist it in the future.
If this might be an option in the future, ask us to reserve the other numbers for you.
If this option is chosen, the information is saved in our customer database and/or in a cookie, and is only viewable in the future by the customer during their next order and checkout process.
If this trend continues, food poisoning could become fatal within a few years.
If time had to be stopped running, by the issue of the writ, surely the easiest way to continue to stop time from running and thus preserve the right of action, would be to serve the writ within the 12 months of its life.
If transfers of equity are effectively a gift of equity in the property, the law allows for transactions to be set aside if the person making the gift becomes bankrupt within two years of the date of the gift (five years if the bankruptcy was known or imminent at the time of the transfer).
If travelling by airwithin 3 months of LASIK, it is advisable to use artificial tears as often as every half hour while the plane is in flight (unless your eyes are closed as in sleep).
If we can just make it through the tough times, who knows, someday we might be some of the only ones left to do the jobs.
If we change our practices in the future, we will obtain prior, verifiable parental consent before collecting any personally identifiable information from children under the age of thirteen as part of the Site.
If we change this notice, the new privacy practices will apply to your health information that we already have as well as to information that we may generate in the future.
If we do not appreciate what we have now, how can we enjoy what we hope to have in the future?
If we do not succeed in gaining this country back from the Left, what will history books say of us in the future?
If we do this consistently when the slower times come we have enough saved to get us through those times.
If we do this, the wars in Afghanistan and Iran could be won within five years, for less than a billion dollars, and without the loss further American life.
If we go into a recession within the next two years, we may once again be flirting with deflation.
If we hear of anyone looking for a fence in the future we will highly recommend your services.
If we over state Moore's law such that computing power doubles every year (rather than 18 months), we have a 32 (25) fold increase in five years.
If we someday get a cash system back on A-R, the winner could be awarded a large sum of A-R cash.
If we stopped shooting 1-1/2 year old bucks in a few years we'd have lots of big deer.
If we waive any of our rights under these Terms and Conditions in any particular instance, it does not mean that we are waiving our rights generally or in the future.
If we're going to release the fragrant oil of worship, every time we come into the presence of God we must die.
If within one year after receipt of your merchandise, you are not completely satisfied, you are welcome to return the merchandise for a full refund or exchange (see instructions below).
If women were provided the type of support they need to grow sustainable, scalable companies, it could mean 5 million jobs in the US alone within the next 5 years.
If you abuse the privilege of having credit, you may find it difficult to obtain more credit in the future.
If you are a NC/NS, then I will require 100% of the donation and you will not be able to reschedule with me in the future.
If you are giving an “Introduction to CoffeeScript” talk at your local developer group in the future, I have a 2:30min video you might find exciting to show.
If you are living a Christian life, Jesus will let you know when the time comes.
If you are not, I also want to hear your reasons why, as hopefully it is something that can be improved upon in the future.
If you are paying 9% in interest for a $10,000 loan, the difference between paying the loan in 24 months vs.
If you are registered and would like to check any of the photos in the future, you can click on "Add to favorites" and then check into your account details to be sure it is there.
If you are stiff you can still make a split kick in ONE MONTH, yes.
If you are unable to collect your Pass within a month of the original appointment, the application will be void and you will have to submit a new application online.
If you ask those who were involved in Scottish football in the 1960s, as I have of many Lisbon Lions, what it was that Jock Stein did to transform Celtic from a basket case, who had won the league only four times in the 40 years before he became manager, into Europe’s most successful team, you are likely to hear a lot of vague adjectives.
If you asked me 13 years ago what career I would have chosen for myself, I would have never in a million years dreamed that I would be a police officer.
If you buy at some point in the future we will require your address and your account will enable you to add different delivery addresses after your first order and other features.
If you can get all this into action, i promise you that you can sky rocket your account within 3 months.
If you can invest the $1,000 today, say, in a bank CD, you can at least earn some interest in the next three years.
If you can not pay it off in 10 years or less don t buy it .
If you choose to lease traditional offices then you should realise that it could prove to be an inflexible option in the future.
If you could show the work so i know how to do this in the future thatd be great.
If you discard any more than 500 kilos of computer equipment in a year then you will need a Premises Code from the environment agency.
If you do not complete this form, your pay will automatically be split so you receive the same number of paychecks as the number of months that you work in a year.
If you do not want to receive e-mail from us in the future, please let us know by or sending e-mail to lthomas@wguc.
If you do not want to receive e-mail from us in the future, please let us know by sending us an e-mail using our Contact Form (contact.
If you do not want to receive e-mail from us in the future, please let us know by sending us e-mail at the above address.
If you do not want to receive email from us in the future, please let us know by sending us email at the above address, calling us at the above telephone number, writing to us at the above address.
If you do require a service they provide in the future, you are free to use them or not.
If you do that, you get the system paid back in 4 years, solar h .
If you don't find an update on our website, most likely you have purchased Kepler, Sirius, or Pegasus within a few months of release of the new version of Kepler, Sirius, or Pegasus and no bugs have been found yet.
If you don't own a rifle but think you might want one someday.
If you don't practice, you won't hit much when the time comes and you have a lot of adrenaline going and everything is moving.
If you don’t get the stuff on track it’ll haunt everything else you try and do in the future.
If you don’t keep in touch, you run the risk of blindsiding your clients, which is where the real trouble begins – both now, and in the future.
If you don’t see new growth in the next month you may have to wait till next year.
If you eat 100 calories a day more than your body needs, you will gain approximately 10 pounds in a year.
If you employ similar techniques and methods in all of your negotiations, you may have allowed a glimpse into your negotiation demeanor, when time is a issue, by the person with whom you would possibly negotiate with in the future.
If you ever find yourself in need of a cash advance, taking some time to shop around for the best deals may save you some money when the time comes to pay back your advance.
If you find that any of these links go inactive or nofollow in the future feel free to leave a comment to that effect.
If you find your listing in the Expired section, just click on the link to edit it, and then simply change the expiration date to a date in the future.
If you go out and look in the next month in the burn areas, you will see the native perennial grasses, with a high percentage probably surviving---maybe 80-90% of the stands---whereas the shrubs may resprout at a very low 1-5% survival rate, helping cause the mudslides, if there is rain this winter.
If you had an extra few hundred, or few thousand or even $10,000 or more a month coming into your bank account every month what would you do with that money to make the most out of that money for you and your family?
If you had four lessons in a month (ie one a week) this would save you £90 - more than enough for a fifth lesson!
If you have 16 workdays in a month (minus vacation averages, etc.
If you have a VA loan, it is especially important that you attempt to work with the VA to avoid possibly being responsible for the full loan amount even if your house later sells for less than you owe and to see if you can remain eligible for a VA loan in the future.
If you have a sense of adventure and are thinking of doing this ride someday, don’t wait!
If you have any suggestions on how our pages can be improved or suggest further information that you would like to see included in the future do let us know.
If you have articles on eHow that you want to delete and re-post elsewhere, I suggest you edit them first to replace your original text to prevent potential duplicate-content issues in the future.
If you have direct deposit or maintain a monthly average balance of $10,000 in the aggregate of your checking and savings accounts (under one account number), bill pay will remain free for the first 15 bills in a calendar month and then only .
If you have not owned a home in 3 years or more, then you qualify as a first time home buyer which means you are eligible for the federal tax credit if you purchase a home in 2009 or 2010.
If you have questions, if you want more information about the programs and opportunities for you, or if you just want to talk about how the School for Leadership and Continuing Studies can allow you to realize your goals and ambitions in the future, please contact us.
If you have seen an old church given a new direction in ten years, you have participated in a miracle.
If you haven't worn an item in a year, donate it to charity.
If you haven’t heard it yet, AC/DC released their first album, Black Ice, in 8 years and it totally rocks!
If you implement some of the programs described, in the next few months they'll be carrying you on their shoulders this time next year.
If you know how the world works, then you may be able to affect how it changes in the future.
If you like the super zoom cameras Panaonic FZ-28 with a 28-476mm zoom in for only $ 262, why you would with a DSLR that will go obselete in a year?
If you like to buy a lot of things in one month, this kind of credit card probably sounds great to you.
If you look at our plastic-shoe competitors, their designs have not changed in several years!
If you love Pokemon, you'll find out who Sting is someday.
If you need to cancel your workshop, and we are able to fill the class without you, you will be able to reschedule yourself to another workshop in the future.
If you need to file a claim make sure you have done so within three months of the first occurrence.
If you need to stand back and look at the week/month ahead, pull the jackets out of the binder and spread them on a table, and start managing/priortizing.
If you plan to move in the next 5 years this can be a great way to slim down your monthly budget.
If you plan to stay in your home for at least five years than a fixed rate is a good idea because you do not want to have to worry about what your interest rate will be in four years.
If you promote something that you do not actually believe in and that product ends up being a dud, your buyers won’t be as likely to buy what you sell in the future.
If you really want to cry, take a look   at what the House accomplished in a year.
If you received a mailing from us, (a) your email address is either listed with us as someone who has shared this address for receiving information in the future ("opt-in"), or (b) you have registered or otherwise have an existing relationship with us.
If you select our Deluxe or Ultimate cleaning packages, we'll clean your carpet for 1/2 price within the next 6 months.
If you speak to a local expert, someone who has good experience in the area, they should be able to give you solid advice on what will and wont work when the time comes for you to sell.
If you subscribe to some website, they'll most likely give you a time-limited subscription that expires in a few months.
If you take good care of it, and use surge protectors, why should it die in 10 years unless it has some factor defect?
If you transfer assets away for less than fair consideration within 36 months of your application for Medicaid, the law creates a waiting period before you can collect Medicaid benefits.
If you want to do something someday that is sooooo off the beaten course, you will be well advised to phone down to Akmed the manager at the Four Season Resort at 52 329 291 6000 and he and his staff will take good care of you.
If you want to sell more to adults in 20 years time, then you need to start advertising to children now.
If you were in the stock market, your return would be unknown – and nobody knows where the stock market will be in 5 years.
If you were issued a "Green Card" with a validity period of 10 years, and if the "Green Card" will expire within the next six months, or has already expired, you may fileForm I-90, Application to Replace Permanent Resident Card  in order to renew your "Green Card".
If you were to drink 1 can of sugar sweetened soft drink every day and not cut back in calories anywhere else, you could gain up to 15 pounds in a year.
If you wonder what you were doing in the past, look at your body; to know what will happen to you in the future, look at your mind.
If you would prefer not to receive such information in the future, please see the Removal from Mailings section.
If you're 40 or over or have multiple risk factors, the AHA recommends that your doctor calculate what the chances are that you'll develop cardiovascular disease in the next 10 years.
If you're looking for a book that will open your eyes to the possibilities in the future of IT, look no further than Randall Stross's Planet Google  .
If you're new here, this blog  will give you the tools to become financially independent in 5 years.
If you're planning on asking for a loan in the future.
If you're planning to sell your home in the next few months, this FREE service is designed to help establish your home's current market value.
If you're serious, you have a whole lifetime ahead of you to discover the thousand and one ways to make love and, man, learning is great!
If you're thinking of buying in the next few months contact a mortgage broker today….
If you've arrived at this page from a bookmarked URL, please contact us (/about/contact/) so that we can redirect similar requests in the future appropriately.
If you've been dreaming of traveling the highways in your RV, but see the adventure as something far in the future when you retire, then you may want(read entire article)  (article24725.
If you've they fat girl sex videos though both home comcast porn clip superbowl a find in 18 year olds getting a message and fucking for.
If your mortgage can be paid up in ten years you may want to choose a term policy for ten years.
If your server experiences more than one hour of unscheduled downtime in a month, you are entitled to a refund of that month's hosting fees.
If your shipment of Louis Vuitton replica bags  is seized by customs, and not released within a month, instead of reshipping, we will have your order compensated by refunding you 50% from our sides.
If your situation has stayed the same or worsened over the last year, it is foolish to think it will change directions in the next year without help.
If your symptoms do not improve within 12 months, check with your doctor.
If you’re just getting started as a professional it can be hard to know which ones of these are crucial and what they are for, and all too easy to dismiss uninteresting or unimportant looking forms that can lead to problems in the future.
If you’re not completely satisfied, send it back to us within one year for a complete, no-hassle refund.
If you’ve had any prior bankruptcy filings dismissed, you may not even qualify for a stay on any debt if you successfully file for bankruptcy in the future.
Ifthe full £1,200 limit is not used in one year, the unused amount can't be carriedforward to the following year.
Iiea And Ohlone College Host First David Blume Sustainable Food And Fuel Production Workshop In California In Five Years!
Im also wanting to get my limiter to only come on at 7200 rpm as is sometimes comes at 7000-7100 rpm-really annoying when im on the track.
Im due in 2 months, and want to start getting a few nappies in- not too much though.
Im going on a trip, in two months, with my class and will be rooming with some friends.
Imagine being able to earn more money from Tax Lien Certificates in one year of investing than you can earn from investing in C.
Imagine having a dishwasher that saves enough water in one year to give every person in Williamsburg, Virginia, a glass of water.
Imagine, in a few months, you will be accompanying your own singing while your friends and family are spending the old time favorite songs with you.
Imainly got the certificate just in case, but talking with the instructors and learning more about bowhunting has really gotten me excited to try it someday.
In 10 year by doing nothing healthcare will be unaffordable or abolish for many more Americans.
In 10 years the London Metropolitan Police Force cut the number of crimes in London by half.
In 10 years will anyone remember Mariah Carey AND what she sang or Celine Dion and what she sang?
In 10 years, people will still be talking about Earle, whether he lives or not.
In 11 years Chavez hasn't make the difference, he could have done a lot for the people he claims to love, with all the oil incomes ($950.
In 12 years the club had progressed threw the pyramid system.
In 15 months   Php 19,900.
In 15 months, Ms.
In 15 years he had missed four days of games for weddings while never missing a whole weekend.
In 15 years how far will technology take us?
In 15 years it has always been word-of-mouth.
In 17 years we've never seen such a rash of killings.
In 18 years it quadruples, by the rule of 72.
In 18 years of stalking monsters and dropping the hammer on trophy whitetails, it just keeps getting better.
In 1800 years of Christian literature you could hold all such books in one hand.
In 1825 the steam engine was invented and within a decade locomotives could carry people at a speed of thirteen miles an hour.
In 1891 she set about finding a place where she could open her House of Education nick-named "The House of The Holy Spirit," to train young women not only to teach their own children in the future, but to become teachers and governesses of other people's children using her sound Christian philosophy of education and method.
In 1920, after two years of hearings, Interior Secretary John Barton Payne announced that unless the two sides came to a settlement, he would award the Verde's floodwaters and storage rights to the Verde River Irrigation District - provided they could get financing within three years and build the dam at Horseshoe by 1926.
In 1954, with the help of friends, he built his own home in only 6 months.
In 1959, children and young girls might have been captivated (they said that Aurora was based on either Leslie Caron or Audrey Hepburn) but in the future, the tale will still win hearts.
In 1980, when the Republicans won the presidency and the Senate for only the second time in 50 years, the liberal-vs.
In 1991, Science magazine dubbed the Buckyball "molecule of the year," professing it "the discovery most likely to shape the course of scientific research in the years ahead," a statement that, years later, does not appear unsubstantiated.
In 1999, it seemed everything finally came up roses for Minnesota as they made their 4th championship match appearance in six years as a pro team, at home in front of ~10,000 fans, and they made their dream come true, defeating Rochester 2-1 for their first A-League Championship.
In 1st Thessalonians 5:1-5 we saw that to do better in the future we need to know the truth.
In 2 months it will cool back down again but if you must have a/c now, why don't you just buy a $1K or $2K beater with cold air which is how much you would spend to fix the a/c at the dealer.
In 20 years or so we might have flying cars, so no much worry about getting flat tires or transmission problems.
In 20 years when you have worked hard and achieved a status in life and someone states they want to take that away you will feel differently.
In 20 years, Swiss Cartier watches  has been able to demonstrate that innovation, quality and service can enable a French brandname to take its place Fake watches  beside the famous Swiss watchmaking names.
In 2003, the DOE created seven regional sequestration partnerships, a nationwide network of federal, state, and private sector stakeholders, to determine the most suitable technologies, regulations, and infrastructure for implementing carbon capture sequestration technologies in different regions of the country in the future.
In 2010 year of the tiger, since 5 yellow is in SW, you can place 5-Color 5 Element Pagoda in SW.
In 2011 year of the rabbit, you can move it to East position.
In 21 years as head coach at OCU, Coach Crabaugh has compiled a record of 1,039‐3222 and the 2005 NAIA National Championship.
In 25 years of goin there, he's never asked me what I was doin.
In 29 of these patients dialysate IgG levels measured again one year later did not show significant differences between the first and the second determination of IgG (from 6.
In 3 years it will be extinct.
In 31 years, remains the engine, stove, man for each of the Squadra Azzurra, which never gives up and transmitted to the rest of his thirst for victory.
In 32 years of operation, this open prison has had only one escape and one repeat offender.
In 4 months and 33 lessons, Harriet flew for her Federation Aeronautique Internationale License (FAI) July 31, 1911, and on August 1, 1911 she became the first licensed female aviator in the United States.
In 4 months since its April 7 launch, 190,698 people have joined at http://www.
In 4 years did the Democrats really blow up the Congressional budget?
In 40 years of writing about politics, Chomsky's errors of judtement-- he was wrong to think that the fall of communism in eastern Europe was a "triumph of the spirit" and that the west missed a "great opportunity" to be rid of Saddam Hussein in 1991-have been remarkably few.
In 42 years, Shoemaker won 11 Triple Crown races, including four Kentucky Derbies, five Belmont Stakes, and three Preakness Stakes; 1,009 stakes races; and 10 national money titles.
In 5 months period (August-December 09), reported mills consumption of raw cotton as 4,823,594 local weight bales (Per month average=964,719) and on this basis annualised cotton consumption works out to 11.
In 5 years how will you justify having taken this job?
In 50 years most urban backs will be Muslim.
In 56 years, the things he did .
In 6 months I've driven it almost as much as it was driven in over 4 years, until it died last Sunday.
In 60 years of production, the original Beetle had plenty of time to win fans.
In 8 years of attending weekly glamour events in his honour, he never utterred a word on one of the worst preventable human catastrophes unfolding in his neigbouring country.
In April 2003, Turkish Energy Minister Hilmi Guler told Parliament that the government had a "strategic goal" of sharply reducing Turkey's reliance on Russian natural gas -- from 70 percent now to 30 percent within five years.
In August 2010, the ORRA Board of Directors voted to raise the local annual dues by $25 for the first time in 15 years.
In February of this year over 4,000 high dollar homes found themselves somewhere in the foreclosure process, this marks a 121% increase in a yearly comparison!
In Firestorm: The Caretaker Trilogy Book 1 (Klass, 2006), Jack thinks he's just a normal high school kid until he finds out he has been sent from 1,000 years in the future to save the earth from our own environmental destruction.
In Franzen's first novel in nine years, he again focuses on family and the social structure of contemporary times, and does so with a laser-pointed pen.
In India, a latest study by FICCI and E&Y claims that the Rs 4,500-crore nutraceutical market will more than double in the next four years.
In July of this year the site announced that it surpassed the 500-million-user mark, with CEO Mark Zuckerberg predicting 1 billion users in the future.
In Lusikisiki, South Africa, district-wide access to ART was achieved within 2 years with a task-shifted model of care [40 (#B40) ].
In March 2010, Whitacre released his Virtual Choir recording of his piece Lux Aurumque on YouTube, receiving over 1,000,000 views in 2 months.
In Norway, we’ve had two rigs running but will have slightly less than that for the year ahead.
In San Jose, Vung Tau is pretty good, and I hope to try Khanh's Garden someday as a comparison.
In Taylor, drug court participants who graduated in the six month period from October 1, 2009, through March 31, 2010, would have served an average of 60 days in jail had they not entered the program.
In Texas, where the penalty is 25% and the redemption period on non-homesteaded properties in only six months, you would need to invest only $80,000 dollars in the first six months of next year to make $20,000 in the following six months, and you don’t have to foreclose on the property.
In Zaire, within 30 years of independence, 85% of the 85 000 mile road network that was inherited from the Belgians had turned into bush.
In a 100 years, 8 million mutations will have occurred, in a century, 80 million.
In a country that rewards creativity and success, don’t you want to reward companies for saving patients so they can reinvest the money to save more patients in the future?
In a decade, the majority of people around the world will be driving electric cars.
In a decades long relationship with our customers, we have jointly recognized the value of these products to health, hygiene and quality of life.
In a dispute between a buyer and seller, the seller usually wants to try to preserve the possibility of doing business again with the customer in the future.
In a few months I will be performing my hit single on B.
In a few months we have bought 200+ new titles with an emphasis on original European books, and American literature on abductions.
In a few months we should be able to get an idea of what CIBC will offer.
In a few months when we've flogged it with tens of thousands of rounds, I'll write a follow-up to this article giving our long-term impressions and conclusions about the GSG-5, and a bunch more SBR/suppressor options.
In a few months, but this fact will change and Avril a discography to his credit the fourth notch.
In a few months, pain is less of an issue, and it goes away.
In a few months, the stock rises.
In a few months, the women became adept at making papad, pickles and noodles, which were then sold at the local market.
In a few months, we will produce a critical assessment of the project that we will use to develop future plans for this exciting model.
In a few months, you may even forget that you are wearing them.
In a few years I will be thinking that the new CM is wonderful and forgotten all the good times in the old CM.
In a few years from now, Haffnia will wake up from this “spell” she is under…Yes, its a full blown spell from satan himself about everything done there in Strong City.
In a few years he was running a chain of such shops and became a multi-millionaire.
In a few years it is going to look even better.
In a few years leagues without IDPs will be as uncommon as leagues with IDPs were a few years ago.
In a few years our literature will assume a new character — the tendency to think which is characteristic of the age is especially so in a republic — a Copy-right law will be passed — it seems advisable now to sum up what has been done and to prophecy what we can do.
In a few years pilgrim jewellery has become a international fastest growing fashion jewellery brand.
In a few years she will see what he did to her.
In a few years the fortune of Mr.
In a few years there will be only five kings in the world— the King of England and the four kings in a pack of cards.
In a few years there will be only five kings in the world—the King of England and the four kings in a pack of cards.
In a few years they hope to have changeable Lithium batteries in the machine.
In a few years, he had already directed more than a dozen plays on Broadway.
In a few years, if the present borders remain unchanged, David’s City could be come Daoud’s City and have a Palestinian mayor.
In a few years, they'll ruin the sport like female bodybuilders did in the 1990's.
In a four month period I saved over two hundred kwh that I had used in the same time the year before.
In a four month period our phone has been out multiple times for a total of about a week.
In a month's time, the hull will be in Europe to be joined to the keel and the mast will be ready and sailing trials will start in mid-June.
In a nationwide survey of adults, 83% said they have experienced a muscle spasm, and half of them reported that they had experienced another episode of muscle spasm within three months of the original spasm.
In a nod to the months ahead, a number of companies such as Siemens (electronics and engineering), MAN (truck maker) and Daimler (carmaker) are adding worker hours.
In a one year study of 1,258 postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, there were no differences between alendronate 10 mg daily and 70 mg weekly on BMD or markers of bone turnover.
In a period of tremendous political uncertainty following the death of Syrian president Hafez Assad, one element of his political legacy is especially likely to overshadow the peace process in the years ahead: the terms he laid out in his failed Geneva summit with US President Bill Clinton.
In a sense, Allende’s wish came true, as a lot has changed in 40 years.
In a similar way, the oils, blessed at the Mass, are carried to every parish for use during the upcoming year.
In a speech to the Australian Uranium Summit   in Fremantle, Mr Moore said the Government was aware of five companies that intended to develop uranium deposits in WA and he expected at least one project to be working within three years.
In a stirring stretch duel with subsequent Breeders’ Cup Classic winner and Horse of the Year Curlin, the super filly dug in and became the first female to win the 1 1/2-mile “Test of the Champion” in 102 years, and only the third ever.
In a ten year period, between 1994 and 2004, bankruptcy rates in the United States nearly doubled.
In a two year-old car he finished on the podium four times and finished fifth overall in the final classification, a result that led to a works’ drive the following year.
In a year and a half I haven’t had one dropped call with the Tracfone network.
In a year bookended by two very prominent Cyber attacks – Conficker in the opening [.
In a year of bleak results, there were still some stand-out performers.
In a year or two, Hamas and other terrorist organizations will be able to shoot rockets not just at Sderot and Ashkelon as they do today, but as far as Ashdod and perhaps Beersheva, with strategic sites nearby.
In a year or two, if he decides to stick with it, they will start programming them and having competitions.
In a year our hood is going to have a lot going on.
In a year that was saturated by severely disapointing films (Transformers 2.
In a year the Sundogs will be permanetly out of business and the CHL will get smart and put another team in the midwest.
In a year this nation faces serious issues, it is totally unacceptable for political candidates to distract people with juvenile squabbles and unrealistic proposalsthat get misconstrued merely by mentioning two subjects in the same sentence.
In a year when the stock market was not kind, the conversation turned to: Do we dip into principal and keep our same level of giving?
In a year where doom and gloom over the economy depressed the travel category, the Priceline Negotiator was back-fighting to help make travel possible by delivering great deals.
In a year's time, when Stalberg, Brouwer, Skille, Seabrook and Crawford all need raises, and Campbell's contract once again forces the team to trade in assets for picks, maybe then he'll get the message.
In a year, Americans eat approximately 20 billion pickles.
In a year, about 90 million jars of Skippy Peanut Butter are sold.
In a year, they hold many ceremonies such as before crop, after crop, new rice and rain praying which are related to the production.
In a year-long study by the Business & Media Institute, “Bad Company III (/specialreports/2007/AmericanBusinessman/AmericanBusinessman_execsum.
In a year’s time, we’ve seen a huge increase in the teen use of illicit drugs and the average age is decreasing with kids as young as 16 averaging their start with marijuana.
In about 10 years of web development (HTML, DHTML, JS, CSS PHP, ASP 3.
In about 20 years, he also figured out that the path to upward mobility was not the one we both choose.
In about 6 months I was down to about 280lb.
In about a thousand years [i.
In absence of such atmosphere, one may feel despotic isolation and thereby the stagnation to the process of evaluation may ultimately ruin the future prospective for progress.
In addition to being killed in ground conflicts on foreign soil, US military forces will likely be reduced in the next few years through disease induced attrition (i.
In addition to that show, Rancic produces and stars in the A&E TV series “We Mean Business”  and is the executive producer of “Repo Man,” which will begin airing on The Discovery Channel in the next few months.
In addition to the weight gain effect, we are horribly afraid that you will someday be showing the tape to your poker buddies.
In addition to this you will have the opportunity to work along side both eminent consultants and our business and marketing team to develop services now and in the future.
In addition, a bamboo grove releases some 35 percent more oxygen into the air than a similar-sized stand of trees, and it matures (and can be replanted) within seven years (compared to 30-50 years for a stand of trees), helping to improve soil conditions and prevent erosion along the way.
In addition, all students who enroll from a Spanish-speaking country within 12 months prior to the test are required to take the SABE/2.
In addition, private industry is expected to spend billions more to protect employees in the future.
In addition, sales pitch, the prospect is led to believe credit solutions that have a relationship with credit companies and therefore can act as an intermediary for the credit companies to wait while The customer deposits money in a savings account and therefore brings the money to work toward an agreement sometime in the future.
In addition, the dome sold in four months and there were other potential buyers disappointed that they arrived too late.
In addition, the research will endeavour to understand climate change that has occurred in the past – work that could have significant implications for issues regarding our planet’s climate now and in the future.
In addition, when the time comes to sell, the next buyer may be able to assume the loan, subject to certain conditions.
In addition, your new joint accounts will appear on both spouses' credit reports (javascript:openGlossWin('credit_report');) in the future, so be sure to pay careful attention to your bills and pay them on time.
In adult studies, 50% of untreated patients with CIS developed germ cell cancer within five years of diagnosis.
In all 14 months of my debilitating condition I had seen no improvement at all.
In all 4 years of high school, Nietsche Swauger took German, planning to spend part of his senior year in Germany under the German American Partnership Program.
In an in-depth interview published today in the Jordanian daily Al-Dustur on February 28, Abbas said that the PA is "unable" to pursue armed conflict for now, but said that "in the future stages things may be different.
In an interview last week with The Associated Press about a tell-all book due out in September, Neil said he hadn't used drugs in 20 years, and stopped abusing alcohol.
In an interview with Arab media last week, Abbas stated that he is "opposed to armed struggle because we cannot succeed in it, but maybe in the future things will be different.
In any case, VoIP is likely to become less expensive as more people turn to it in the future.
In any event, The Pew Charitable Trusts does not currently lobby and has not decided to undertake any such activities in the future.
In any meeting of shareholders, if the meeting was convened or a resolution was passed without compliance with or in violation of the articles of association of the company or the provisions of this Act, not less than five shareholders or shareholders amounting to less than one-fifth of the total number of sold shares may request the court to order revocation of such resolution of the meeting, but the request must be made within one month of the date on which the resolution was passed by the meeting.
In case of failure in the NHS, the retest must be completed within one month after the first screening (AAP, 1999).
In case of failure, the retest should be performed within a month.
In case you haven't heard, influential trip-hop group Portishead came out with a new album this year, which was a big deal, seeing how it's their first studio album in 11 years.
In conclusion, there is a chance in the future by following the above UPA policy that peace in Kashmir may be a "Paradise Lost" for ever at the cost of peace with our neighbor.
In elementary school I was struggling with math, so they pulled me aside and put me in Special Ed, were I WAS given individualized attention and moved through three years of material in a year.
In entering upon his newly chosen work, he applied himself to the duties thereof with enthusiastic devotion, having mastered the native language in about one year.
In eschatological discourse, statements that Christ is returning 'soon' should not be interpreted to mean that He is returning within a few years, nor a few decades.
In fact 79,000,000 (yes million) Americans plan on starting their own business in the next 3 years (Forbes Magazine).
In fact Marge and Joanne ended up buying Sutherland’s house in 1987, with the plan to retire here in the future.
In fact in the 5 years I have worked there, I have been promoted twice.
In fact more people - over 500 000 have died since the UN monitored election than in the 16 years of war that it was meant to end.
In fact we could very well evolve ourselves to look like them in the future.
In fact, Seidenberg is going as far as to say that he hopes the carrier's 4G network that it is preparing to launch in the next few months will be the impetus to bring Apple on board.
In fact, at some point in the future there will be a entire section of the Basics series at Ichthys devoted to that topic as well (under construction at present, and, sadly, a long way from posting, but see the following link for related files: Basics part 5  ).
In fact, clinical research is one of the best areas to work in right now and for the future since this industry is going to grow substantially in the future.
In fact, if you give Friday nights to Jesus and your class does not double in two years or less, it probably can't be done.
In fact, you'll save so much money by NOT using gas that your mower will pay for itself in a few months.
In five months, Commerce officials will learn if their $75,000 investment in the city reservoir resolves a longstanding problem.
In five years, 25 babies were born to OXO employees, making for many users of all things baby!
In five years, the event has raised more than $55,000 to benefit Macomb/St.
In five years.
In four months, the site reached over 1000 visitors and was number 2 in the top gaming sites at Myqth.
In four years at Penn State University (2005-08), Norwood recorded 185 career receptions for 2,015 yards and 13 touchdowns.
In four years of hard sailing, most of the Spaniards were confirmed bachelors (/Gay) , and the notion of physical contact with females of any species was somewhat terrifying.
In general, trial dates are set within one year of the time you file your case.
In her 12 years with BMU, Bright has held numerous leadership positions as Production Support Coach, Planning Lead Coach, FP Lead Coach, Business Planning Manager and Production Manager.
In her 20 years, she’s taught about 600 graduates, and she meets them frequently as she travels in Grey and Bruce Counties.
In her four years Marcoux will earn twelve letters in hockey, soccer, and lacrosse, and still ranks among Princeton's all-time hockey scoring leaders.
In her two years as a Cloud Student, Nancy appeared in many plays including the all-time standout, Grease, which also featured Jaime Fall and John Bates in the cast.
In his 35 years, though, he became one of England’s most important monarchs for several reasons, including his many victories in the Hundred Years War.
In his book Love and Responsibility, John Paul II—then Karol Wojtyla— explains why this often happens to men and women and how we can avoid such disillusionment in the future.
In his post, John laid out his basic outline of how he had managed to triple his Adsense income in six months.
In it 14 year-old Susie Salmon has been murdered and watches from her version of heaven as her family grieves.
In its report, entitled Prevention for a Healthier America: Investments in Disease Prevention Yield Significant Savings, Stronger Communities, Trust for America's Health concluded that an investment of $10 per person per year in proven community-based programs to increase physical activity, improve nutrition, and prevent smoking and other tobacco use could save the country more than $16 billion annually within five years.
In just 15 minutes a day you can embrace the power of the Word of God in one year.
In modern times, the best example I can think of is that we can use our imagination and tools to find asteroids that might hit the earth in 1000 years of orbits, so we send a tiny robot ship up to ‘nudge’ just enough to save the entire ecosystem from destruction.
In most cases, the gift tax only applies for aggregate gifts in excess of US$12,000 to any one person in a year.
In my 15 years as a software developer, I did not write a single program that did not have to parse, search, or modify strings.
In my 17 months experience, I have learned and grown in more ways that I could have ever imagined.
In my 20 years of praying in front of abortion mills I have seen thousands of acts like this towards pro-lifers and I have never seen a pro-lifer do any of these things.
In my 23 years experience with the game, I've found that students who learn to play chess perform better academically.
In my 25 years and seeing hundreds of urban jocks [.
In my 25 years of ACP membership, this reaches to an academic nadir for Annals.
In my 25 years of membership, I’ve witnessed the thrilling evolution of a discipline that once had little more to offer its patients than lactulose and lasix, to one that extends the lives of its patients, cures chronic diseases, and witnesses miracles through liver transplantation.
In my 25 years watching the push and tug over dairy policies in this town, I am struck by something different this year: The various sectors of the industry truly are close to agreeing on some of these new ideas.
In my case, at age 38, being told I have a very serious condition that has damaged my heart and unless I deal with it immediately I probably won't be around in 12 months.
In my last post I showed how we currently have 24 builds running at any given time  , with more builds certainly to come in the future.
In my opinion he has the potential to be better than Aaron Ramsey in the future, but it's just Swansea do not get the media attention Cardiff do and thus Ramsey was found first.
In my seven years as a middle school English, reading and social studies teacher, I can remember the following sentiments running through my head on more than one occasion: "Oh, we have extra time when the kids return from the field trip?
In my ten years at Vignelli Associates, I came to understand the relationship between the two brilliant designers who ran the office.
In my two years as resident of the house, I had managed to personalize my box-like room, filling it with what I thought were collectibles.
In my two years of attending the Fall River P.
In nearly four decades of recording and performing his unique sound, first in 1954, when Kuti joined the Cool Cats as a singer  in a highlife band, next with Koola Lobitos, then Nigeria 70, later Africa 70, and finally Egypt 80, much has been written about Fela’s life.
In nearly four years of blogging, I’ve barely referred to the lake at all, and never by name.
In nine years it doubles.
In one month I made over $100 from Adsense placement on some of my pages.
In one month Tuts introduced Creative Sessions, teaching the theory behind the techniques and practices that get used in tutorials and by professionals in the field.
In one month they used 3,010 gallons of water.
In one months time, we shall have the first truly enhanced female.
In one speech Douglass could condemn the United States for slavery, that it’s existence in the past and present bind it to exist in the future, but in the same speech he could lift up listeners spirits.
In one year Texas producers, who constitute .
In one year alone, he recorded 270 salmon caught.
In one year alonethe Vernon native has achieved what many spend years to accomplish.
In one year from today my goal is to have one.
In one year he added a day of work at the Bruno work center to two days of work working in the PCs for Aided Learning (PAL) program where he prepares computers for others to enjoy.
In one year she largely developed her adult face.
In one year the over 100 trillion cells that make up the body will all be new.
In one year the product will be reviewed again for formal approval.
In only eight months of his professional stand-up comedy career Jackson landed his first television appearance on BET’s “Coming to the Stage.
In only five years, they hired over 200 staffs and the annual income has exceeded tens of million dollars.
In only six years, the Department of Drama had been created, with its University Theater, its Traveling Theater, and its Children's Theater.
In only ten months Barack Obama has surpassed the Bay of Pigs on the list of the biggest mistakes the country's ever made and Vietnam's starting to hear footsteps.
In order for NextEra Energy Resources to continue to economically develop wind and solar energy projects in the future, it will need to utilize the investment cost recovery mechanisms currently available as well as requiring similar public policy support in the future.
In order to qualify for a refund, the goods must be exported in accordance with regulations under “Indirect Export” and valid evidence of export received by Edward Symmons within one month of the date of export.
In order to receive a certificate of completion, attendees must complete the entire program within two years.
In order to take advantage of other value-added family services that may be offered by Ancestry in the future, users may be required to supply financial information.
In other words, a thousand years in the future, the Earth would have rotated a mile differently than it would have if the hill had not appeared for those few months!
In other words, by the time we come to a point of making a particular choice, the entire universe (and that’s pretty big) has been in a sense “manipulated” to bring us to that point.
In other words, companies and third parties will readily spend $30-100K a week on email marketing than $5,000 a month on optimizing news releases, optimizing their website, doing a PR campaign or anything else that might provide dividends in the future.
In other words, the economy has grown at a rate of 2% in 23 years, which is insufficient for countries like Mexico.
In our 12 years of driver safety education, we have refined our Florida basic driver improvement online course to be easy, fast, informative and convenient for any schedule.
In our 36 years we've developed a signature commitment to growing our own food and land stewardship.
In our six years of publishing BGR’s Diamond Technology Reviews, this time of year is the time when the vendors hold their breath, people finally return my calls, and I occasionally make someone’s day.
In our survey, only 1 percent of Bain consultants said they didn’t plan to be with the firm in two years.
In our three decades of service we have helped position, launch and/or grow many of the organizations that today are household names in the world of American and International non-profits.
In our three months of traveling around the United States together,I had learned that Michael would never pass up an opportunity to help someone.
In particular, the Group commends his innovative and efficient style of functioning, as well as his leadership skills and looks forward to continue to benefit from these qualities in the future.
In practice, a product that fails within a month can be exchanged for a new one under the store's guarantee; or a product that fails after the store guarantee expires but before the manufacturer's expires can be exchanged by the manufacturer — the store guarantee and the manufacturer's warranty are mutually exclusive.
In reducing capital which is not the case under Section 140, the company shall send to the creditors known to the company a notice of the resolution to reduce capital within fourteen days from the date on which the resolution was passed, stating that any objection thereto shall be raised within two months from the date of receipt of the notice, and the company shall also announce such resolution in a newspaper over the fourteen days' period.
In return, as President of Kenya, Raila agrees within 6 months re-write the Constitution of Kenya to recognize Shariah as the only true law sanctioned by the Holy Quran for Muslim declared regions and within one year to facilitate the establishment of a Shariah court in every Kenyan divisional headquarters, everywhere in Kenya, not just in "Muslim declared regions," and to popularize Islam, the only true religion by ordering every primary school in Kenya in the regions to conduct daily Madrassa classes.
In seeking the answer to this question, the Court, despite its vaunted “concern for realities,” paid no attention whatsoever to the practical set-up of the business arrangement under which Max Senior had collected $2,000 in one year.
In seven months, I discarded the 70 excess pounds at a pretty constant rate of 10 pounds per month.
In seven years it grew to be the largest single day ride in metro Atlanta, and it is consistently rated one of the top three rides in Georgia.
In seven years no water clear to give the grass new birth.
In seven years, NIH breast cancer research funds increased tenfold.
In several years of using these devices heavily, including during the completion of a degree in English Literature, I have never found a situation where there was any advantage to holding 1,500+ books in my hand at once.
In short, expansion is essential to our vision for the months and years ahead.
In similar fashion, when the time come to sell a successful business the owner has one chance, and one chance only, to do it the right way and maximize the profit potential for his or her years of hard work.
In six months that would give you $2,400.
In six months we have made rapid strides and are listed on the top of many search engines including the Yahoo directory of Vedic Astrology.
In six months, the 35-year-old Janet transformed the Bronx flat into his home.
In six months, you might even be biting into hard cookies, chips, and crusty bread once again.
In six months, you might want to feel that exercise is a more vibrant part of your life.
In six years I have not heard how much steel and concrete were on each level of the buildings so I am wondering how that information can be obtained.
In six years of coaching, Grant Taylor (Alex Kendrick) has never led his squad to a winning season, and his team, not to mention the players’ parents are tired of losing.
In some cases, patients have lost more than 150 lbs in a 18 month time span which is equivalent to what can be expected following a gastric bypass surgery.
In such case, the applicant may appeal against the order of the Registrar to the Minister within one month from the date of receipt of the notification of the order.
In such case, the board of directors must arrange for a meeting of shareholders within one month from the date of receipt of the notice.
In summary, I'm happy I took the leap and look forward to a beautiful smile in the future.
In ten years of dealing with judges, I'd never been in a situation in which a judge planned to hold a juror in contempt.
In ten years.
In that 3 years she’s only seen one person, and he dumped her right after sleeping with her.
In that camp a lady gets pregnant and since she is the first pregnant woman in 27 years the woman is scared and needs protection from the British government.
In that case, in 500 years or whenever, some technician would unfreeze you and fix whatever killed you, and you would be living then!
In the 10 years prior to 1990, 3.
In the 12 months since the Genoa summit, 3 million people have died of AIDS.
In the 12 years of old actress was first introduced to high art.
In the 14 months or so that the friendly sushi-bar-style bistro has been open, it has developed a reputation for having some of the freshest, most creative seafood in Ensenada, ranging from sashimi, tempura oysters, scallop and bluefin carpaccio, to shrimp burritos in lobster sauce, and much more.
In the 14 years I have been editor of Dairy Herd Management, I have never received as many positive responses about an issue as I received for our June “consumer talking points” edition.
In the 15 years since its inception, the company has handled over 250 films and counting.
In the 15 years since the protest that shut down the world's financial center, ACT UP has been at the forefront of public awareness.
In the 156 years since 1844 the LDS Church's teachings about the Godhead have remained consistent and static.
In the 160 years that followed Haslett's dust-filtering "lung protector," respirators have come a long way, although the fundamental design hasn't changed much.
In the 18 months following the launch of Apple's App Store, 150,000 apps were created and three billion downloaded, many of them for kids, writes Jonathan Webdale.
In the 1930s some estimated we'd run out of oil in 10 years.
In the 20 years before Stein arrived as manager Celtic only finished in the top four in the league on four occasions.
In the 20 years for a woman,shapely legs into a more active than ever.
In the 20 years that the NKF has hosted this golf tournament, this was the second most profitable tournament ever held!
In the 200 years that were to follow, however, this number rose to 103.
In the 210 years the lighthouse has guided shipping through these waters, there have been many changes.
In the 222 years since our Constitution was ratified, the trajectory of American ingenuity has always been on the rise.
In the 24 years I have been with Milt Sparks, we have NEVER lost a customers order, so if you place an order with us, you can be assured it's not going to get lost in the shuffle!
In the 30 years since the enactment of Title IX, girls have proved that they can be just as interested, just as competitive, and just as successful in sports as their male counterparts.
In the 4 Year Curriculum, the child will learn how to write their first and last name using a capital letter for the first letter only.
In the 4 years since his death they have BOTH gave back 200%.
In the 40 years since the first Super Bowl was played between Green Bay and Kansas City, Super Bowl Sunday has grown into an unofficial national holiday that has shopping and economic effects rivaling Christmas, Thanksgiving and other major official holidays.
In the 45 years of their existence, the Dallas Cowboys have been the won more football games than any other team in all of football.
In the 5 years we have had kids Paul has never once called and told me to get a babysitter.
In the 51 years since Hawaii gained statehood, Democrats have ridden the wave of union endorsements into Congress.
In the 6 years since 9/11, NIST has failed to provide any explanation for the collapse.
In the 6 years that we have been associated with them we have never had an unsatisfied customer.
In the 6 years we've known each other, my husband and I have been to many different places on vacation - the Caribbean, Las Vegas, New Orleans, and Bermuda, to name a few.
In the 69 years since then, we have changed almost nothing about the Social Security system despite the massive fraud.
In the Air Force, if you do your job and stay out of jail, you get promoted to Captain in 4 years.
In the Journal for Clinical Laboratory Science a survey indicated that within the next seven years 50% of the current practitioners will retire, and that not enough programs exist to meet the needs of the industry.
In the Kindred world, a minor conclave of Archons representing the various Justicars of the time were have said to have met there to discuss the role Seattle would play in the future of Kindred events, and for the third time in the 20th century, a Toreador was denied the right to embrace Elvis.
In the Netherlands though, and coming up on this very blog: lots of cycling and photos to do in the next three months--including a couple of marathon rides along the North Sea and one in from Maastricht.
In the Telemark Study in Norway, 400 people aged 50 to 59 years were offered FS in 1983 and, if polyps were found, a colonoscopy was available to them at that time, and again 2 years later, and also 6 years later (the intervention was more aggressive than the one-time sigmoidoscopy currently being tested in the United Kingdom).
In the West, before mass communication and literacy, the most powerful mass medium was the church, which reminded worshippers that their souls were in peril and that they would someday be meat for worms.
In the absence of any such provision the capital allowances to which he is entitled in a year of assessment will be deductible in computing his statutory income for that year whether or not there was any increased export profit exempt from tax in that year.
In the case of vegetative varieties, we included all of those available in Australia plus any new ones going through Quarantine (and therefore available in the country within about 12 months).
In the case where a shareholder of the company dies or becomes bankrupt, and thereby entitling any person to the shares, if such person produces valid and complete evidence, the company shall register and issue a new share certificate to the person within one month from the date of receipt of complete evidence.
In the case where the company pays dividend to the shareholders in violation of Section 115, Section 116, or Section 117 and thereby causing a disadvantage to the creditors, the creditors may sue the shareholders to return the dividend which have already been received; but the creditors shall sue such shareholders within one year from the date of the resolution of the meeting of shareholders.
In the case where the court orders revocation of the resolution passed by the meeting of shareholders under paragraph one, the company shall notify the shareholders thereof within one month from date of the final judgment.
In the case where the register of shareholders is lost or defaced or damaged in essence, the company shall report to the Registrar within fourteen days from the date on which it had or should have knowledge of such loss, defacement, or damage and shall prepare or repair the register of shareholders within one month from the date of report.
In the cases of something like the IFS, and Poly-Sprout attractors and other in the future, a new drop down control is also there to allow the choice of degree matrix's or order's.
In the coming year he hopes to record and publish, for the first time in 500 years, the Mayan prophecies of his people.
In the early 1880s, Charlotte was still a small town struggling to recover from war and reconstruction, but within a few years of his death, Charlotte had emerged as the largest city in the two Carolinas.
In the eight months since reaching my target weight of 200 pounds, my weight has not fluctuated more than a few pounds.
In the eight years Culver has participated, 22 of 23 Culver applicants have won the English Speaking Union Scholarship, a merit based scholarship for a post- graduate year at an English preparatory school.
In the event of the Fund going into liquidation under Article XVI, Section 2, within six months of the date on which the member withdraws, the account between the Fund and that government shall be settled in accordance with Article XVI, Section 2, and Schedule E.
In the event that we find a line is Out Of Stock at the time we come to process your order we will not take payment for the respective line(s) until such time that we are able to send the respective line(s) to you.
In the event that within four months from the date of such communication at least one third of the States Parties favours such a conference, the SecretaryGeneral shall convene the conference under the auspices of the United Nations.
In the event that, within four months from the date of such communication, at least one third of the States Parties favour such a conference, the Secretary-General shall convene the conference under the auspices of the United Nations.
In the first case, your debt will be repaid in case you die, in the second case, Instant Term Life Insurance Quote is ideal for those who have just started a new career and who don't know what will happen in the future and at last, term insurance is a great bonus to a permanent insurance plan.
In the five years between 2002 and 2007, the population of Ancona grew by 1.
In the five years prior to 1995-96, the comparisons of success rates among the four minority/nonminority-gender groups are similar.
In the five years that have now passed since Katrina, the capacity of our department to go, to serve, to proclaim, to have compassion, and to touch has increased dramatically.
In the four months since landing the role of James Bond for the £100million movie Casino Royale, he has toned his physique and added masses of muscle.
In the four years after Great Britain banned handguns in 1996, gun crime rose by 40%, while Australia encountered a 51% increase in armed robberies after their 1996 ban went into affect.
In the four years after the U.
In the four years since its launch, the JNNURM has fulfilled many of the expectations that we had of this historic initiative.
In the four years since our last invasion of Iraq, in all of the fighting, we have lost just over 3000 men and women.
In the four years since the inspectors left, intelligence reports show that Saddam Hussein has worked to rebuild his chemical and biological weapons stock, his missile delivery capability, and his nuclear program.
In the four years the credit union has been participating in the ride, they have raised more than $200,000 for the Utah Chapter.
In the four years, I have had so many artists affect my journey.
In the future Christina’s goals are to save money for her college education and to someday own her own photography business.
In the future I am going to make some further guides on how to take the information entered and send it to yourself using PHP or ASP, but that’s for another day.
In the future I recommend always doing a yeast starter a couple days prior to your brew day, and keeping it on your stir plate until it is ready to pitch.
In the future I see open fields for far more important researches.
In the future Netzarim will enable us to ensure that no heavy war equipment is being unloaded at the port of Gaza.
In the future by aiming to further improve our technological capabilities and by supplying high quality products, we would like to become a company capable of contributing to the dietary habits of not just Vietnam, but each and every region around the world, starting with our various neighboring countries.
In the future could you integrate the options "add as friend" that is in phpbb3 with jomsocial add as friend?
In the future in China market,the vast potential market in China Coach is accelerating expansion plan, is expected to be an important year net including flagship stores in 15,and the preliminary plan in 2011 to open at least 20 home including Coach outlet store and the inn in inn inside the store.
In the future it seems that e-commerce will become an indispensable means of distribution in the various tourism fields.
In the future it will be essential for people who want to financially support Anastasia related projects to have a legitimate non-profit foundation to give their money to.
In the future it's always a good idea to wash any produce before you eat it.
In the future more and more people will be involved with the web as new generations grow with more knowledge about this spectacular tool called "the internet".
In the future please post the Pinecone signup links directly and check to make sure they're working first.
In the future spray your lilies with a repellant.
In the future the live update program will alert me if there is new firmware available and will install it.
In the future the rest of the Israelite Nations will become identified.
In the future their commitment is to present projects that will be more and more complex, not necessarily in terms of mechanical complexity, but mostly in terms of innovation or aesthetics.
In the future there will be registration for some items, but right now it is free for all.
In the future these guys will be a force to be reckoned with!
In the future this information may be used to help A1-Discount-Hotels.
In the future this will be rectified.
In the future updates we will improve the functionality related to the cover pages.
In the future we aim to deliver a complete carbon finance website dedicated to ev .
In the future we might do another more advance lesson about the weather.
In the future we shall do our best to provide American readers with the best electronic books reading devices at the lowest possible prices.
In the future we will be adding an ignore list to the private messaging system.
In the future we will have a new motocross track, climbing area and zip-line tour facility.
In the future we will try to keep each race at 4 boats per race.
In the future we'll make this transparent changing the key space implementation to do this tricks automatically, but I guess client library hackers may want to implement a similar interface already.
In the future we'll stay less time in Milan.
In the future we’d like to create new ways for airlines to market their products and find new passengers, and derive service fees or referral commissions.
In the future will be bred to Prince Solharis.
In the future you'll find my latest stuff there, research results, code snippets, background information on my projects, and certainly my products (likeDatabase.
In the future, AEA will also take part to a stimulus-funded green jobs training program with other community organizations in the Bronx.
In the future, Hensley says he hopes to tackle the Oak Street retail corridor to provide a more lively center for Old Louisville.
In the future, I hope the County will be more thorough vetting not-for-profits seeking funding with taxpayer dollars.
In the future, I want to add a feature to clean up all the orphan webmail data that is also left behind.
In the future, Industrial Foundation may install wind turbines or solar panels.
In the future, I’ll be able to help provide more support and guidance.
In the future, Jones and Drew could complement each other in the same way that Atlanta RBs Warrick Dunn and T.
In the future, Luke would like to own his own shop, but for now he’s enjoying his life as a newlywed.
In the future, Monitors are stronger, smarter and longer-lived than normal humans.
In the future, S.
In the future, Scott hopes to make more trips over to Japan to both race and gain a deeper understanding of Japanese culture, especially traditional vegetarian food culture.
In the future, Shantae wants to maintain her job at Bank of America and hopes to advance her position.
In the future, Voulgarakis and his colleagues figure to get by heart the chance of using dendrimers as unsalable article delivery vehicles.
In the future, a foundation will be established to allow others to contribute.
In the future, any attack against Israel would be the responsibility of the governments of Lebanon and Syria, which can control our common border should they wish to.
In the future, are you planning a workshop on making a demo?
In the future, as costs decrease even further, you will find people using web casting for everything from online family reunions and sales presentations, to home-based cooking shows and pay-per-view seminars.
In the future, as we develop more Green Power supply, you may also have the opportunity to participate.
In the future, certain types of service will be done on the Sabbath and this will be done with God’s full knowledge and blessings!
In the future, chromosome *The word "safest" is used here as a relative term.
In the future, color changing shows will be programmed for special events and timed for curtain call at various theaters.
In the future, continuing trade liberalisation and economic reforms are expected.
In the future, each person would do just one type of work.
In the future, even more exciting innovations will continue to improve food quality and make farming more sustainable.
In the future, everyone will be Hitler for 15 minutes.
In the future, for large-scale production demands, Jenkins acknowledges that injection molding, die casting and similar high-volume processes will still be needed.
In the future, genetically engineered microorganisms could partially digest the most viscous oil and thin it out.
In the future, if the director doesn't want to call all those kids back who didn't make it, simply post the cast list and have people check it instead.
In the future, if you don't KNOW the answer to something, ask.
In the future, it is expected that the DDI will be expanded to other locations across the country.
In the future, it is likely that the upper limit of the serum TSH euthyroid reference range will be reduced to 2.
In the future, it will play a leading role in attracting financial resources that are vital for getting out of recession.
In the future, it would also be great if the program could allow transfers not only within Arlington, but from more rural parts of the region into Arlington.
In the future, life between the digital and physical world has been blurred.
In the future, long after the Batman has driven himself into exile, his legacy lives on in the form of the Birds of Prey--Black .
In the future, menstrual stem cells may be the basis of medical treatments for serious diseases.
In the future, much more information and research, perhaps in a combined effort, will be necessary to find out whether the peritoneal membrane can be used in a large number of patients during treatment periods as long as 20 years, which are not unusual for patients on hemodialysis.
In the future, our Site may change, and if appropriate, we will revise this Privacy Policy and post the update version here.
In the future, prospective randomized trials may be required to definitively establish treatment guidelines.
In the future, researchers may be able to address this issue more directly through neural investigation.
In the future, schools could mandate that students see a professional for counseling in order to remain enrolled and in campus housing.
In the future, she would continue to favor commercial, pop-oriented songs over traditional blues and jazz songs.
In the future, technology will continue to provide the highest level of service to the Coca Cola Company by improving efficiency, leveraging existing knowledge, and proactively mitigating legal issues by educating clients on key issues affecting the company (Coca-Cola 2006).
In the future, terrorists are increasingly likely to be organized in a more decentralized manner, with arrays of various groups linked by the Internet and communicating and coordinating horizontally rather than vertically.
In the future, the CCO is planning on taking political action, beginning with putting pressure on mortgage companies to find ways to keep families in their homes.
In the future, the Holy One, Blessed be He, will bring about great disasters in the countries of the world to sweeten the judgements of the Land of Israel.
In the future, the Khonkaen Church of the Nazarene might move into this community that has no church yet.
In the future, the advantages are likely to diminish without foresight, as six billion people compete for the resources of a planet that can support one billion and we wring our hands while other ethnic groups reach for their guns.
In the future, the government plans to target "strategic" areas for privatization, including telecommunications and other utilities, including the Egyptian Electricity Authority, although the Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) and the new natural gas entity, Egypt Gas (EGAS), remain off limits.
In the future, the team would like to add new technologies and equipment such as a mobile communications truck and fire engine.
In the future, the watch you hold right now may become a timeless classic.
In the future, the world is a changed place.
In the future, there will be other opportunities to get involved, including collecting wild lupine seeds, and seeds from other nectaring plants which feed the adult butterfly.
In the future, these partnerships will likely mean increased sharing of program elements of Great Lakes management.
In the future, they hope to use this process to not only reveal further information about A.
In the future, this could also be replaced with a flash uploader for multiple uploads and progress (which can only be done in PHP with APC enabled), such as is done with Kaltura  .
In the future, this type of therapeutic approach may provide another option to cataract surgery and benefit the course of cataract reversal and prevention in this age-related eye disease.
In the future, users can find more exciting features.
In the future, we anticipate adding other modules, possibly for specific species like pigs that would be interchangeable with some parts.
In the future, we believe that the D-U-N-S number will be an increasingly important part of the way we do business.
In the future, we may run into a situation where, despite our best efforts, the conditions necessary for victory might be beyond our ability to independently produce at an acceptable cost and within the time available.
In the future, we plan to add sections with frequently asked questions, additional videos, and other helpful information for parents.
In the future, we will be adding more databases to the search engine.
In the future, we will be much more dilligent about how we do drivers changes, fill ups, etc.
In the future, we will be sharing more about what goes on in the universe with the general populace of earth.
In the future, we will continue our policy that any e-mail sent by AAF that is primarily commercial in nature will be sent on behalf of no more than one of our affinity partners.
In the future, we'll be offering other features to registered users, so register now.
In the future, we´ll play complicated exercises.
In the future, when acer release 64bit driver, we might want to use 64 bit OS (vista or xp).
In the future, when games are becoming more and more expensive to develop, he wants to put more programmers on the gameplay part, and not on special effects or bells and whistles.
In the future, when you are writing posts that have the intention of convincing people, try writing about things that aren’t so laughingly obvious partisan crap.
In the future, you can shop Thai ingredients and cookware from our web site.
In the future, you may purchase additional packages online in the member admin area.
In the future, you will be able to switch between text, voice, and video with ease.
In the future,she hopes to work toward full time employment at Goodwill Industries, possible hanging clothes for the stores.
In the future.
In the future?
In the good old days, the score of a Tony award-winning musical would have been hummed throughout the land in a matter of weeks and the show would have been parodied on The Carol Burnett Show or the The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour within six months of opening and everyone would have gotten the joke.
In the kitchen, Yolanda darkly informed me that this was the second time in a month the police had shown up at the restaurant.
In the last days perilous times will come on earth and people will only have a form of godliness (2Tim.
In the low-lying areas of the fort, the footings of posts could rot in two years, toppling their twenty feet of solid height.
In the meantime, despite her lukewarm recent recordings, like 1998's "A Rose Is Still a Rose", she's an institution, assured of the ability to draw live audiences and immense respect for the rest of her lifetime, regardless of whether there are any more triumphs on record in the future.
In the months and indeed years ahead, I ask for your prayers for me and for our beloved Holy Land, made sacred by the presence of Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and I assure you of my prayers for all of you who have worked and sacrificed so generously.
In the nearly four years since Gabrielle Miller's last interview with alive, the award-winning actor has maintained a frenetic and hectic acting and promotional schedule.
In the next 100 year, there was a huge import of elephants to Circuses and Zoos in North America.
In the next 11 months the physical face of our community will change dramatically.
In the next 11 years, they would visit 35 countries on five continents.
In the next 15 years, the 65+ population will increase by 84%!
In the next 18 months we will be creating 4 million square feet of built-up space for IT.
In the next decade came THE SINGING MAN MY FATHER GAVE ME from Menard Press in London, England and THE TORN STAR, EDWARD and the chapbooks NO ONE FOR FREE, GRATE COUNTRY , IDOLINO, NEXT YEARS' WORDS and THE SINGING SURGEON.
In the next decade there’s going to be a lot of renewable energy built, and all that has to go somewhere.
In the next decade, if the American early care and education system does not change, millions more children will never realize their potential.
In the next few months I’m going to need a birthday card for both my second son, who is turning 10 and my daughter, who is turning 7.
In the next few months they had spread down his arms and legs and were quite unsightly.
In the next few months we will draft the regulation.
In the next few months, we will be conducting a major re-evaluation and re-design of the website, but in the meantime, we'll be making some small tweaks to the current layout and design.
In the next few months, you can visit us at the events listed below.
In the next few years scientists can utilize multibillion dollar particle accelerators to handle a number of their new theories, but it remains to be seen whether or not we can ever comprehend reality.
In the next few years, before the Manchu imperial government was overthrown in 1911, Dr.
In the next few years, some entrepreneur or inventor is going to revolutionize the way we manufacture solar panels or build wind turbines; discover a new light-weight battery for electric cars or a safe and affordable way to capture carbon from coal plants.
In the next five years approximately Rs.
In the next five years, we'll have a much better idea about the minimum 'dose' of exercise needed (how often, duration of exercise sessions, how much exertion is needed) without compromising the cognitive benefits.
In the next four years, about 43 per cent of the Internet users globally are anticipated to reside in Asia and China would account for about half of that population.
In the next month I'm going to test and add quite a few plugins, will trial these among them.
In the next month John crammed every day with evangelism training, leading the students by inspiring example.
In the next month take action.
In the next month there will be drawings on May 3 and May 21.
In the next one year (till the end of financial year 2009-2010) we are expanding our team strength to 4 times of the current strength.
In the next six years the number of cinemagoers dropped further, while the number of TV viewers continued to rise.
In the next two decades the population doubled, partly because of immigration from Europe, and Toronto became known for its dynamism and its ethnic diversity.
In the next two months, Woods, Vivian Girls, Titus Andronicus, These Are Powers, and Abe Vigoda will all play the Whitney.
In the next two years China plans to double the size of its high speed system, increasing track length from 3,000 miles to 6,000 miles.
In the next two years I tried every natural therapy available at the time.
In the next two years leading clothing brands started taking interest in the innovative works of Hardy.
In the next year (2005-2006), we identified sites, and in 2006-2007, we began patient recruitment.
In the next year he founded a new revolutionary organization, the Tongmen Hui 同盟会, in Japan, while retaining close ties with the Hongmen/Chee Kung Tong.
In the nine years I worked as a blackjack dealer, I saw a lot of hopeful schemes and ideas, and while many failed, some of them really worked.
In the novel, the FlashForwards occurred 21 years in the future.
In the opinion of architects lowest masses should be stylish and refined models to maintain its relevance in the next year.
In the recent two years, Apple iphone is undoubtedly the most popular cell phone in the mobile phone market.
In the role of the ruler of the state will need to address global challenges: to manage the economy, direct diplomacy, development construction, to create new trade routes to enter into profitable alliances and build strong sailing fleet - in short, do everything to make power in the real ruler of the seas, When the time comes try their fleets in the case, a player personally lead the battle at sea, taking command of the whole fleet, or acted as captain of a separate vessel.
In the seven years since its inception, AMP has been adopted as part of the Social Studies and English Language Arts curriculum by more than 400 schools.
In the six months since Loren left his biker lover back in Barkus, Kansas, they've never said those three important words.
In the six years since event organizers started using the Internet for housing, usage has crept from the single digits to an average of about 35 percent, according to major players in the online housing market.
In the six years that I’ve written about Ethiopian immigrants and politics in Minnesota, I’ve never editorialized directly against the Ethiopian Prime Minister, Meles Zenawi.
In the spirit of having goals, decide on what are a good number of pips to have in a month,week, day etc.
In the state of Minnesota, for example, it is estimated that 8% of all farmers will be driven into bankruptcy or forced to give up farming in the next 12 months.
In the summer of 2001 Dylan even chose to perform ‘Gotta Serve Somebody’ eleven times within two months.
In the ten months since the landmine exploded beside her he has learned to read the mute workings of her throat, the bat of her doe-like eyes, the information implied in the way she caresses a particular piece she feels holds a potent move in its future history.
In the ten years after this tournament (from 1914 to 1924) he lost only one game and the chess world was beginning to think he was invincible.
In the three decades since, the label has developed a reputation as one of the most distinguished and innovative independent record labels in the world - as evidenced in 2004 when England's prestigious Gramophone magazine honored Telarc as Label of the Year.
In the three months ended June 30, 2010, Heli’s net income was $1,983,512, a 225.
In the three months he's been here, his recovery has been difficult & slow, but steady.
In the three months leading up to the Daytona 500, Nextel’s ability to attract NASCAR Fans rapidly accelerated; by January 2004, Nextel was more than twice as attractive to NASCAR Fans versus its overall market traction.
In the three months since filing for bankruptcy, Chrysler has also seen a $600 million gain from a settlement with the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corp.
In the three months since the inauguration, several important topics have gained attention.
In the three months they’ve been in Rio their Portuguese has progressed beyond “give me another beer, please,” but even a native would be stumped to hear the guard deny you entry for your cut offs.
In the three months to be treated with herbs who gave me my liver detoxification, and herbs / nutrients to build my lungs and support my adrenals and thyroid, which was free of allergies and asthma.
In the three years before Beijing pegged its currency to the US dollar in July 2008, the RMB gained more than 20 percent against the dollar, he points out, "but the US trade deficit with China did not decrease.
In the three years since launching BrightStar in March 2006, BrightStar has grown to 115 franchisees with nearly 150 locations sold and with over 110 locations already open.
In the three years since the bursting of the housing bubble, and yet the number of mortgage defaults and foreclosures continues to increase.
In the time ahead, with the help of experts, I shall strengthen that policy with new preventative measures and a more ready outreach to victims.
In the traditional recitation of the patient's history, we told the consultant of the many hardships the patient and her family had faced in the 30 years she has been hospitalized.
In the two decades since the first reports of the disease, AIDS has become a global epidemic.
In the two decades there was broad agreement that scientific developments  , with a mode of branching from a common origin, had taken place, but scientists have been slow into natural selection that Darwin thought the importance appropriate .
In the two months following the Palestinian assault against Israeli athletes at the Munich Olympic games in September 1972, 78 Arabs were deported from the United States.
In the two years he never had a single complaint.
In the two years since issuing the preliminary report, the FDA said it has gathered more than 100 scientific studies, as well as unpublished articles, supporting its earlier finding.
In the weeks and months ahead, I will consult with my spiritual advisor, [circle one: Rev.
In the years ahead, as ASSIST seeks to move its student fees as modestly as possible, the foundation of support provided by the Annual Fund becomes more critical.
In the years ahead, the current-retiree payout will rise to 100% of current revenue.
In the years ahead, we'll need strong leadership in the Senate to fight for our priorities and get results.
In their biggest game of the season the AquaSox produced a near-perfect performance, and Everett claimed its first league title in 25 years by beating the Spokane Indians 6-1 Sunday evening.
In their first home game at the top level of English soccer in 33 years, Robbie Blake scored early in the game and Burnley held on to upset reigning league champions Manchester United before 20,000 jubilant fans.
In their three years together and more so since she had accepted his proposal a year ago, she had become totally submissive to James to anything he had wanted to do with her or to her.
In this case it took about two months to sort out, and in that two months, they were forgiven and converted, born again, and anointed with the Holy Spirit, now ready for ministry at last.
In this connection, if the company is of the opinion that the transfer of shares is in order, the company shall register the transfer of shares within seven days from the date of receipt of the application and shall issue a new share certificate within one month from the date of receipt of such application.
In this sense, the study of English around the world - and its taxonomic implications - may benefit considerably from the analysis of varieties we know little about: they encourage us to rethink principles that have been applied in the past while forcing us at the same time to assess their significance for the classification of English in the future.
In this way, in the future, humans could not adapt to an increased global temperature, for example, and the population could be severely depleted.
In three months they cornered many of the best jobs, controlled the kitchen and were the aristocrats of the camp.
In three years I started five businesses, all of which were more or less successful, but not very exciting.
In three years post-therapy, CVD risks and fracture prevention benefits became insignificant.
In three years' time they became masters of the whole language, so that they read the best of the Greek authors very exactly.
In three years, Project My Time expanded from three schools to nine, leaving a footprint in nearly every ward in DC and in more than half of all middle schools.
In three years, they have been turning heads at rodeos, super shows and jackpots.
In times of trouble, when the debt ridden borrower finds himself surrounded by supportive people, it adds to his determination of becoming debt free and also strengthens his resolve not to indulge in similar mistakes in the future.
In turn, better technologies for the production of consumption goods can be developed in the future.
In two months Gilligan I'm going from a deserted island to an isolation ward!
In two months, the Chiefs lost their two bookend linemen; one a potential Hall of Famer in Willie Roaf, the other dependable John Welbourn.
In two months, unemployment rose from 5 actor to over 9 million, extensive about 12 actor in aboriginal 1938.
In two years Cincinnati Bell has grown into a nationwide operator with an optically switched network and a new name, Broadwing.
In two years, Converted Products, Inc.
In two years, N397.
In two years, he says Mr.
In view of the impossibility of reaching a final agreement on the basis of the fundamental demands of both sides, the Israeli media reported that Prime Minister Barak is willing to give up his main demand in the negotiations - an unequivocal declaration ending the conflict - and substitute it with "a registration of mutual demands and the establishment of an agreed mechanism for the settlement of these demands, with a defined time table, and an agreement that there will be no additional demands in the future.
In what ways might we support the child in dealing with these obstacles and potential problems in the future?
In which I posted my journey from Adsense noob (I only made $20 in two years with Adsense on a daily update blog) to what you might call a somewhat reluctant “Adsense phenom” in the span of two short months.
Increasingly, right branding and correct positioning will determine business success in the future,” Satish points out.
Incredible and life changing novel that is perhaps the best I've read in a decade.
Indeed in the future people will look back with jesting on a decade when tens of billions of dollars were exhausted in an attempt to encourage instituting that the warming of Earth was due to man and not a role of the Sun.
Indeed, they are scams asking you to pay them for the memberships in order to get the blueprints of “how I got rich within 1 month of joining this thing”.
Indeed, two thirds of all revenues raised will go back to consumers, rising to 75% in the future.
Indeed, when Liston arrived in London three months after Cassius for a series of exhibitions, the champion was hailed as a breath of fresh air.
India - Those currently unemployed can now look forward to more recruitment opportunities in India within the next three months.
India has been elected consistently to the ICAO Council since its inception and the elections are held once in three years.
India is set to give the go-signal to the commercial growing of a genetically modified (GM) potato within the next six months.
Indian Coal Demand May Triple in Next Two Decades, Minister Says(25-09-2010)Learn More (News_Details.
Indian Prime Minister Manmohan Singh says the global nuclear industry will have huge opportunities in India, as the country could have a hundred-fold increase in nuclear energy generation, in the next four decades.
Indian ports to face challenging year ahead, says report(08-09-2009)Learn More (News_Details.
Indications: Adenoidectomy may be recommended when enlarged adenoids are blocking the airway, which may be suspected if the child: snores excessively has trouble breathing through the nose (nasal obstruction) has episodes of not breathing during sleep (sleep apnea) Adenoidectomy may be recommended if the child has chronic ear infections that: interfere with child's education persist despite antibiotic treatment recur 5 or more times in a year recur 3 or more times a year during a 2-year period Adenoidectomy may be recommended if the child has chronic or repeated bouts of tonsillitis.
Individual Manitobans are also culpable in the 19 year delay in bringing Ronald Brown to justice.
Industry analysts, however, predict this kind of service will be widespread within the next 5 years.
Industry and government need to work together to create an environment where there is opportunity for all to play a part in the future.
Initially sponsored by the Ministry of Water Conservancy, the institute is currently co-managed by the local and central governments, but mainly run by the former after a readjustment of the State Council in 2000 year.
Innovation has been essential to our prosperity in the past, and it will be essential to our prosperity in the future.
Inshallah, I will come back in 20 years and will be able to walk the streets of Kandahar for myself.
Instead of waiting 9 years for an Avocado you can choose a grafted variety and get fruit within 3 years.
Instead, Alaska has fought tooth and nail to deny Osborne that access, in a decade-long legal battle that will soon culminate with a decision from the U.
Instead, we have crafted reforms to pinpoint the structural weaknesses that allowed for this crisis and to make sure that these problems are dealt with so as to prevent crises in the future.
Insurance companies have warned companies that policies will be cancelled in the next two months, because of the extraordinary liability.
Inter Milan were aiming for their third European Cup win in four years and were top of the Italian league, looking for their fourth championship in five years, when they took the field against Celtic in the 1967 European Cup final.
Interesting to look back on this thread in a year or two and see who picked a Diego and who picked a D'Alessandro!
Interestingly, within a month or two of the move, almost all of the people who were resistant had changed their minds – the convenience of the new location, and the new styles of working the new offices facilitated, had won them over.
Internet searches have also increased more than 64% in one year.
Interventional Radiology is playing a role in developing new techniques that may improve cancer treatment in the future, including the use of magnetic particles to draw cancer-killing agents into tumours; and the delivery of genetic material, called gene therapy, to fight or prevent cancers.
Intifada actions must escalate to ensure that Israelis will have to return to the polls within six months to a year, to change the composition of the Knesset.
Invest in the Future!
Investment Payback: Achieved in five months.
Investors believe that the maturation in this industry will occur in the next five years.
Invite her to visit you FOR A FEW DAYS in a month or two.
Iron Ore Price Jumps Most in 7 Months as China Buyers Return(28-07-2010)Learn More (News_Details.
Is it possible that either of these will see the light of day within the next year?
Is the only Valentine's Day card you will be getting this year coming from your child?
Is there any breakthrough search technology on the horizon that will affect intranet or extranet applications in the next 18 months?
Is there anyone you still want to work with in the future?
Is there unreleased live footage for a possible dvd or something in the future?
Isaiah Alden, brother of the founder, settled on the site of the prospective village, but it did not prosper, and in a few years was forgotten.
Isay someday because Ihave lots of work ahead of me in terms of improving my archery skills and buying equipment.
Islamic finance will play its part in getting global finance back on track and will continue to be used to do business in the future.
Isoun foresees that any country that does not take advantage of biotechnology now will experience a technological set back in the future.
It acts in the present and will act in the future as it has in the past, and mankind sadly needs a guide for action in the present and for the future.
It also comes a few months ahead of midterm elections, in which the economy is expected to play a vital role in whether Democrats hold onto their majority in Congress.
It also gives parents the opportunity to see how much they grow and learn in one year.
It also had its highest total viewer numbers in 4 years, averaging 10.
It also happened to be his best album in 25 years.
It also includes obtaining resources from owners and providing owners with both a return on their investment and at some point in the future a return of their investment.
It also keeps companies on their toes because they know that any market advantage they have will be effectively erased in a few years.
It also racked up its best quarter in a year.
It always shocks me how big the first ones are, then the smaller, later ones on the same plant make me forget so they can shock me again the next year.
It believes that other water suppliers around the world are likely to adopt this technology in the next few years.
It calls on the parks department to stop installing synthetic turf immediately and to a make schedule for replacing existing turf fields, which disintegrate within a decade.
It caused us to open everything we had done in the 4 years these students had been with us to close scrutiny and critical examination.
It comes from learning to stand up to people who are intimidating you, and from refusing to play along with manipulative bullshit - something which little compliant, cowardly, jealous, desperate-to-please you would apparently never dream of doing in a thousand years.
It could actually destroy any chance you might have in the future.
It could very well be us in 7 years.
It could, however, make you one in a decade, and that's a timeline most people can deal with.
It cured my cat of his crystals in 1 month and made his coat shiny and healthy.
It develops in 16 years, totally 7500 square meters.
It didn't all happen in a year or two !
It didn’t help matters that as I got closer to Kangnung, and started to hit the treacherous mountain switchbacks, I could see the expressway sometimes suspended on a bridge far above me and sometimes coming out of a tunnel far below me.
It does no good for you hypothetical 22-year-olds to point out that in 45 years your private account money will be there for your retirement.
It even made me think about applying to it in a year.
It got the first new platform in ten years; also, a sporty trim the Toyota Camry SE got into the line-up.
It has been my lifeline in the past and I'm sure it will be again in the future!
It has been observed for centuries that there are two days in a year (May 28 and on July 16) when sun comes exactly overhead Ka’bah at the local noon time.
It has been rumored that fan-boys will squeel as loud as fan-girls when the time comes.
It has no worries in a year of drought and never fails to bear fruit.
It has nothing to teach us about bow the Kingdom will come in the future.
It helped me with ocean of knowledge so I really belive you will do much better in the future.
It highlights the usual pitfalls that many of us fail to avoid and demonstrates how to skip them in the future.
It included 1,011 women participating in a prospective cohort study of women recruited within 12 months of their first diagnosis with invasive breast cancer.
It includes the lowest property tax rate in 20 years, two new police officers and a state-funded archaeologist position that is part of the Tse-whit-zen .
It is a good idea to put tape over these numbers so they do not get filled in with paint and become unreadable in the future.
It is a great feather in our cap no matter how many times we win (five times in six years).
It is a great sign of hope and a source of support for consecrated life in the United States, now and in the future.
It is a mandated imperative that in the future all farming activities in the region are developed with water use efficiency as a key factor.
It is a must read for those looking to build their sea legs for the changing times ahead.
It is a positive idea that the trouble is over and the US can look towards a normalization of the fed funds rate, but the real question is, how much economic damage will occur to the average family in the next 6 months?
It is a slow process but we should be able to eliminate a lot of the morning open hours in the next month to six weeks.
It is almost effortless for the conscious mind to consider a statement in the future tense, but the subconscious mind is much simpler and does not have the ability to understand anything beyond what is occurring now.
It is also a great idea to purchase a professional looking invitation that you will be proud to mail and set it aside as a memory to look back in the future.
It is also to be noticed that within a year or two of this date, the Armenians changed their divine year from 552 to 532 years, that is to say, from the ancient or Buddhic-Dionysian to the Augusto-Dionysian standard.
It is an important tool that helps you determine the care you would receive in the future if you were unable to make a decision for yourself because of a serious illness, injury or unconsciousness.
It is anticipated that the DCMI will develop other mechanisms for registering agreed names for schemes in the future.
It is assumed that if Google can develop its Chrome OS in about two years, Microsoft, Firefox, etc, would be able to develop their own “browser based operating system” at the time when Google’s version arrives next year.
It is at the same time a gift of God which will be bestowed by God in the future (Luke 12:32) and yet which must be received in the present (Mark 10:15).
It is being described as the strongest tropical storm to hit Seoul in 15 years.
It is believed that to contain any such Chinese plans in the future, the USA in the 1990’s decided to establish a strong presence in Afghanistan.
It is called ‘Quadrants’ (that might change in the future).
It is conducted by the privileged Indian Institutes of Management (IIMs) for admission in to two year full time Post Graduate Programs in Management.
It is difficult to live in the present, ridiculous to live in the future, and impossible to live in the past.
It is estimated that one in three ACS patients will die, have a recurrent heart attack (also known as myocardial infarction), or be readmitted to hospital within six months of their first cardiovascular event so preventing reoccurrence is vital in ACS patient treatment.
It is expected on mobile devices soon and for built-in search boxes on browsers like Google Chrome in the next few months.
It is expected that in the next 40 years food production will have to increase by 50% and development of wheat varieties that require low input and provide a high performance is essential to manage the increased demand”.
It is generally a bad idea to invest money in the stock market if you plan to use it within the next five years.
It is going to rain someday.
It is hoped that sometime in the future some of the younger church members will consider re-starting a branch so that Headley, once again, has a say in an organization whose aims are to be concerned with all that strengthens and preserves family life.
It is hoped that this project will be a role model and inspiration for similar efforts in the future, not only in Latvia but in other countries as well.
It is however theoretically possible that relations with the United States can go sour again in the future.
It is important to choose the area you want to work in after careful consideration of factors such as your particular skills and interests, what you feel passionate about, where you would like to work, and how it will tie in with your goals in the future.
It is important to realize that your feelings may change at some point in the future as frustration is a common, though temporary, emotion for all people.
It is impossible to overstate the importance of this one tape if you have or will have a fourth grader in the next year or so.
It is in our idleness, in our dreams, that the submerged truth sometimes comes to the top.
It is in this capacity that velvet antler seems bound to play an important role in the future.
It is just too hard to predict several months ahead how many boats and what models to order… especially now.
It is likely to disappear someday.
It is motivated by the fear that Saudi society will change from inside and this change will create more subcultures and new cultures inside the country which may cause religious and political problems in the future.
It is my second SONY CCD in 4 years (first one had a bad ground that broke every year) and I'm ready to say "GOOD BYE" to SONY.
It is naturally true that we already have in our possession all the resources that can last for hundreds of years in the future.
It is not in stone yet but I will pass on the possibility of a 2 session program at Zzyzx in the future.
It is not known when QB Ben Roethlisberger  will be allowed to begin physical preparation for training camp, though doctors told him he would be ready to play in two months.
It is not wise to tell people of your disappointments, your disillusionments over religion, or the exponents of religion - it is better to keep a silent tongue because the time will come when you will be ashamed of those feelings, you will find that they expressed the littleness of your nature, not the Divinity: you were being tested and you crumpled up under the test even as a piece of paper exposed to the fire.
It is often estimated in MIPS-years and states the number of instructions that can be performed in one years.
It is painful to know that the relationship you’ve cared for for years will come to an end not because of death but because of disloyalty.
It is perhaps unlikely that actual CO2 growth (in the next 50 years) will exceed that of the "2 °C" scenario, given the existence of concerns about global climate change.
It is still the single largest issue that will affect Beaufort County this year, and the county commissioners must deal with it now, and in the future until it is resolved.
It is the amazing revelation that we are destined to someday share in the unimaginable adventure of ruling the universe with Christ.
It is the single largest issue that will affect Beaufort County this year, and the county commissioners must deal with it now, and in the future until it is resolved.
It is the third time in four years the non-affiliated clubs have drawn above that level, this time finishing at 8,130,646.
It is their hope that a rebuild in Brown County is in the future and once again the return of Country Music Legends.
It is time to share the truth with the world that Gus is real and is only here to assist us when the time comes.
It is time we all share our information and intelligence so that we can learn to protect our planet when the time comes with nuclear technology and weapons that can be used in space.
It is to say, though, that this is interesting and worth watching in the future too.
It is totally illogical to assume that the other end of ANY long distance conversation would be exactly at our stage of development (or within 50 years or so).
It is tough to change receivers every year and I bet lots of people don't know this is the first time in six years that Vick won't be dealing with that.
It is true, that it is hard to tell someone what will happen in the future (5 months' time), but there are a few things that you can do while she's away that will make her feel special.
It is unrealistic to expect that in two years, an understaffed and outspent tax revolt could have defeated a political machine that has been in power for fifty years.
It is without a doubt one of the biggest questions you will have to answer in the upcoming months.
It is worrying that 54 per cent of young people responding to the survey felt that councils were not preparing them to get good jobs in the future, but we can also see some signs that things are improving.
It just might save your life someday.
It last rained in the city three months ago.
It lets us know how we are doing and helps us improve services in the future.
It looked amazing in all the area’s and especially in the Future Stormtroopers Area.
It looks like we could see an ice-free summer there in the next decade.
It makes plain that with either therapy, a large majority of patients die within 5 years of diagnosis.
It may be advantageous to delay payments in one year and prepay them in the next year to bunch the expenses in one year.
It may be one of my last tours for a very long time as I may be concentrating on films in the future, so I thought this would be a good opportunity for all my fans to see me.
It means that unless you do something, you are likely to develop true high blood pressure in the future.
It meant so much more than a football game, it meant hope had come back, it meant that they were back to being a normal city, it was a ray of light in a year filled with disaster and di .
It meant the world to me, and their future to them, that they all felt that the best piece of writing they did in four years of high school was their work on the History Day project.
It might be supposed that, even if the messianic mutterings of a judge in a specific case can become proud principles of The Law, quoted and followed in other cases, at least the legitimate use of those principles would in the future be limited to the kind of case the judge was muttering about.
It might be true that there is extra-terrestrial intelligent life, and it may also be true that we could some day find a way to detect it, and we may someday even find a way to communicate with them.
It might seem a long way off right now, but when the time comes you'll be glad you provided for your retirement.
It not happening in 10 years.
It often must be completed within 9 months of death.
It only seated two people and had gone through three transmissions in 5 years, so we were more than a little turned off with Chevrolet's reliability.
It plans to open a business in Preston in the next few months, owner Joe Hall told British Baker.
It promises to be interesting times ahead, as Landlords up and down the country re-assess their strategies and decide whether or not to continue to accept tenants claiming LHA.
It receives several billion times the energy from the Sun on a daily basis that the human beings will ever use in the future.
It seemed like a good move to give teachers more time to prepare their students and therefore it’d provide a more accurate assessment of the teaching/learning accomplished in a year.
It seems that in the future in one way or another, I'll be doing work for the fans.
It should be released on DVD in about three months and may go on a limited release to theaters.
It should weigh on you too and if there isn’t some discipline in Congress, we’re going to be talking about a new bear market in 18 months if we don’t get this stuff under control.
It soon became obvious, Paul and the other Apostles opened huge portals of apostolic authority and within two years the entire region had been impacted.
It sounds like me, but… it really makes me consider what can happen in one year.
It spread like the virus of its title, quickly spawning two sequels (one based on Suzuki's second novel in the trilogy, Rasen, and one written specifically for the screen closer to the content of the original movie) and two remakes in four years, which I'm pretty sure is some sort of record.
It takes very little space, and is easy to maneuver when cleaning time comes.
It used to be frame and all were thrown up within a month.
It was New York’s second title in three years and its first sweep since 1950.
It was a big milestone for someone who someday dreams to be a dancer.
It was a pleasure to work with each and every one of you, I hope we can spend more time in the future.
It was a very thorough training and upgrading program that brought about a major change in three years.
It was also improbable that it would resonate with me as deeply as it did if not for my having to go to Valley Presbyterian Hospital , and finding out that in four months that I would have a daughter to go along with my son.
It was decided that penal action would be initiated against such companies if they failed to redress issues in three months.
It was designed in one year.
It was impressively good music, so if you ever in the future hear a song from Ben Selgrin over the radio - we know him!
It was not until April 2000 that new standards were issued, resulting in several years of California being the only state in the nation without water quality criteria for some of the most dangerous toxics, including the papermaking effluent dioxin.
It was reported in February this year that new findings suggest that cancer rates will globally double in the next 10 years, the African continent is believed to be the most vulnerable region for this increase.
It was the first new off-Broadway theatre to be built in 50 years in New York City.
It was the first time in 32 years that womenhadcompeted at Acho.
It was the first time in 800 years that Rome had been successfully invaded.
It was the first time in six years Willows and Dober, two-time Olympians, were beaten in the K-2 200 by a Canadian crew.
It was the first time in three years.
It was thought that someday Ty would print "BabyTy" on the tags, however to this day that still has not yet happen!
It was with George's help that Abram expanded the business to Washington, opening up the Palais Royal and then buying out his brother's share in it two years later.
It will also help you to manage your finances and achieve debt relief in the future.
It will be always better and sensible if the individuals have habit of replacing this parts every month if feasible or else minimum one time in two months from the localized store of air conditioning maintenance London.
It will be expanded in the future as resources allow.
It will be great for you to look back at these photos in the future and remember when this awesome tradition started!
It will be interesting to see if Sofia doesn’t change her mind in a few years.
It will be interesting to see what types of financial development program will be catering to this market in the future.
It will be nice to forget getting pregnant someday and just fuck away.
It will be nothing but more pain for the months ahead.
It will be the first time in 128 years that international cricket will leave the SCG.
It will help people remember who you are and give them a way to contact you in the future.
It will only meet its objectives if internet users are able to exert pressure in the future and somehow ensure adult material is kept together in one location.
It will soon be available for download on the AoE Heaven and Telcontar's AoE sites, and will probably be included in the future DRSBUILD versions packages.
It would also be nice to have more gutting done to save the time on that in the future once you’re ready to tackle that area.
It would be a shame to spend thousands of dollars in a month to get traffic, and then your website falls short of delivering you the actual estimate request or lead.
It would be better to hear her say that “the Philippines is truly diverse yet united by a strong leap of faith in the future.
It would be great if someday, the web hosting service providers find solutions for their power consumption.
It would be interesting to see if in the future Wenger starts to train Sagna for a midfield role, like he has Eboue.
It would be nice to have a Pro version with more channels in the future, but for now I'll focus on two channels.
It would take to long to try and tell you about them here, but maybe someday if I think anyone is interested I write them down and post them.
It wouldn't surprise me if someday they'll be making more than the president.
It"s in the future.
It's a lot of work, but I'm confident it will yield rewards in the future.
It's a song that would be repeated time and time again in the future .
It's always a good idea to choose a system that has some room for growth in the future.
It's an excellent way to keep fit for the ensuing spring and summer months ahead.
It's becoming more necessary than innovative or trendy for car makers to release hybrid vehicles of their top sellers, and in the next few years, it's likely that even more hybrid models will be available.
It's been a great 3 years so far and we hope to grow bigger and stronger in the future!
It's been a long time coming — almost 3 years — but I've finally released an update for Modern Bubbling.
It's been a long time coming, but it is finally here.
It's been said that a pillow increases some 10% in weight in one year due to dust mites, dead skin cells, and other elements that get inside.
It's better to wait a couple of years, let the LED industry fix their problems and let others buy all those batches of garbage that are on the market these days and then maybe, maybe you will save some when you start buying GOOD LED stuff in the future.
It's expected to be operating within two months, at which time applications will be accepted again.
It's just impossible to enumerate all the stuff done in one month on a fast evolving project.
It's not easy to cater to 18 million passengers 365 days in a year, day after day.
It's only natural that they will encounter monetary problems in the future.
It's really a pleasure to work with Infotax Square , and we are looking to work with Infotax in the future.
It's sad that an anticlimatic fight will almost certainly lead to an anti-climax of the best fight in 20 years or more not happening, but it it what it is.
It's the first piece of work I've done in a year and a half and it came straight from the heart.
It's the first time in 5 months that anyone had really purchased anything and to think I was just days from giving up.
It's up nearly 23 percent in the two years Richardson's been Speaker.
Item=N82E16820146785 You can add more in the future to the same motherboard when games get more resource intensive.
ItemID=404&rcid=73&pcid=63&cid=73) » In AIU I could learn in one year things that in conventional study I could take four or five years.
Its also possible to rearrange the nesting of your categories in the future without loosing any event data.
Its always around, and once you have had an episode of depression you are much more likely to have another in the future.
Its better to have something rather than nothing so however they can be built use that way so the people can have something within the next 30 years.
Its business model also appealed to us because it showed it is a company we can trust to be around years in the future.
Its content still continues to be offered without asking any money, and so it will be in the future, too.
Its great and should pay back in a year.
Its hard not to get reflective, when you look back over their childhood, and in my case especially, things certainly have changed hugely in the 3 years since Gabe was born.
Its largest find in Alberta area in nearly 20 years lifts hopes for more giant deposits.
It’s a heady, almost unbelievably quick courtship—within a month Pierre asks her to move in with him, and within 6 months they’re engaged.
It’s a shame really, but I am sure if the event goes well (and I am sure it will) there will be more of them in the future (hopefully on a different day!
It’s a very good point that you have raised, i never thought of that but will certainly consider it in the future.
It’s been a long time coming!
It’s been a long time coming.
It’s fun picturing how much those tiny feet are going to do in the future.
It’s happening in 5 years,” he said.
It’s hard to believe but another year is coming quickly to a close.
It’s hard to imagine living in a 200 year old house, there aren’t to many here if any.
It’s in the price range of what Keegan was going to spend on her prom dress too, so if I were her I would buy something like the one pictured below so that I can use it again for other occasions like a wedding or a party/cocktail in the future.
It’s just worth less today than it was one or two years ago, but in ten years, it will most likely be worth more than you owe on it.
It’s more than a year now since my Corgle (short for Corgi-Beagle) Prince Madoc died of old age and I still miss him every time I come home.
It’s not just that she’s growing on him and he’s a decent person, she’s representative of something – the underdog, the out-cast – what he’s going to be in a few years out of high school.
It’s not perfect (especially at very high screen sizes) but it’s only temporary — Megan  will be doing the real design in a month.
It’s possible that the iPhone may be making it’s way over to T-Mobile sometime in the future.
It’s striking that in a year when an African-American of Kenyan descent secured the Democratic nomination and the most successful woman’s bid for the U.
It’s summer time and with summer time comes summer scheduled.
It’s sure to be a great resource in the future.
It’s the difference between your family being comfortable in the next few years—and having serious financial problems.
It’s useless to do it only when exam time comes as others may not be willing to share their hard-earned lecture notes with you.
Ivan continues to run at least two marathons a year and hopes someday to complete all five major world marathons.
Ive always been a whey protein kind of guy but after dropping 25 pounds in only three months, I now consider myself a CUUR guy who prides myself on living a healthier lifestyle.
Ive been trying to get them for years, but once I started practicing every day I got it down in a month.
I’d be lying if I didn’t wish my bunnies were gone somedays and I had clean arms again …even for a day .
I’d have to ask, did these people say a peep about all the outrageous comparing of Bush and the Republicans to Nazis in the 8 years before Obama?
I’d like to go back to school full-time, maybe to become a registered nurse, and perhaps I’ll do it someday.
I’d love to know which books look interesting to y’all, and hopefully I’ll be able to review them in the future.
I’d love to see all of the United States someday.
I’ll be checking this game out more in the future.
I’ll be looking for more exciting developments in the future.
I’ll keep checking this site for tips in the future.
I’ll keep updating this page with new resources in the future, but this should get you started.
I’ll post more of my insanity in the future, for sure.
I’ll start off with what everyone will probably want to use this post for in the future – an index of all of the “Summer Meal Series” posts, as well as last summer’s R.
I’ll try to explain that better in the future.
I’m expecting to see a lot of glorious pictures of the lovely Hayden Panettiere in the upcoming months.
I’m fascinated with the high quality of writing you have got yourself here, and I’ll surely be returning to say hey there again in the future.
I’m getting married in 6 months and I have not saved enough money for a grand wedding.
I’m glad that you enjoyed the post and hope that it will help you in the future.
I’m going to my dr who is 6 hours away in the next month or so.
I’m here today to talk about some of the challenges that we’re facing, some of the decision that have been made, and some common sense, core approaches towards dealing with our national budgetary issues in the future.
I’m hoping thati in a year from now, I’ll have a more modern selection to choose from.
I’m kicking around a few ideas for plays in the future.
I’m looking to purchase a theater in New York in the next month or so to be used for the performing arts.
I’m not saying that makes it ok, but just think for a second: in the 120 years since the first 6-day racer  threw back a glass of bubbly laced with cocaine, maybe you aren’t the first person to think that’s a pretty lame way to win a bike race?
I’m not sure will the Curve 8530 get the Blackberry 6 OS or not, but I certainly hope older devices like these can taste all the goodness of the Blackberry 6 someday.
I’m not the most eco-friendly mom in the world, but I certainly try to make simple changes to my everyday life to make the world a better place now and in the future.
I’m on my third chapter at the moment, and at just over one chapter a day, I should get in done in a month.
I’m really pleased that you have found this post so helpfull and that it will help you in the future.
I’m roughly dividing them up in my head into ones that might make viable sales in the next year, and ones I’m going to hang onto for a while.
I’m sure they will be fixing any problems and adding more awesome features in the future.
I’m sure they’ve finished above us a couple of times in 100 years or so.
I’m sure you’ll be hearing from us in the future!
I’m thinking about applying to medical school in the future (I’m in high school, planning to go to McGill or Queens).
I’m working on a book that’s the first of a trilogy that takes place after High Druid of Shannara, which is in the future of the Shannara world.
I’ve always dreamed of visiting Venice someday.
I’ve always had a difficult time coming up with standardized and canned banter.
I’ve been hearing they are on the horizon but I wonder if that means in one year or 10.
I’ve been scheduling like mad, too, and am really excited about the upcoming year!
I’ve been thinking about 17 and Baking and my passion for food and everything I’ve learned in one year, and I’ll be honest.
I’ve got a slew of pretend bands that I plan to start someday.
I’ve grown a huge passion for technology and there's nothing more interesting then seeing what's to come in the future.
I’ve had 12 different jobs in four months.
I’ve just finished reading Donald Miller  ‘s A Million Miles in a Thousand Years, where he talks about the struggle with living a story worth writing about.
I’ve spent time with specialist nurses, heard them break the news of cervical cancer to some poor woman who has had it for the second time in five years, spent time at the early pregnancy unit and seen some super cute ultra-sound scans and experienced someone finding out that their 2 week old baby has gotten stuck in their fallopian tubes and passed away.
I’ve told him that sometime in the future, even without his assistance or proper documentation, I will try to replicate that feature: the algorithm proves to be not difficult at all.
JMovie Someday's Dreamers - looking for Subber(s)!
JNB is currently laying world class banking foundations in Jordan that we plan to use as the basis for regional expansion in next 5 years.
Jackson did not understand that he was laying the foundations of a gigantic system of corruption, which within a few years would develop into the most serious of the dangers threatening the continuance of American freedom, he was very ready to believe ill of political opponents, and to make generalizations from extremely inadequate data.
Jaguar, BMW & Mercedes luxury coupe’s were the targets Mazda aimed for, & when released onto the Japanese market in 1990 the Cosmo easily outshined the best of them with styling years ahead of it’s time.
James Thomson of the University of Wisconsinadison discovered first time a technique for isolating and culturing cells derived from human blastocysts, could someday lead to major medical advances in organ transplantation, well as gene therapy and treatment of diseases such as paralysis, diabetes, cancer and AIDS.
James said something at first son grew up day by day NFL Jerseys Wholesale  , the feeling was finally joked: maybe someday will happen.
January 2003 -- The Year Ahead (jan2003.
January is a time when many organizations present new and/or updated goals to guide behavior during the year ahead.
Japan intervened in the currency market on Wednesday for the first time in six years, selling yen to stem a rise in the currency that is threaten.
Javelin Group has delivered 15+ retail technology roadmaps in three years, each with good results.
Jennifer Granholm (a close ally of the President who may someday seek a cabinet position or a Supreme Court nomination once term limits end her governorship) and U-M President Mary Sue Coleman, and took a seat between the two.
Jeremiah gives the promise that the time is coming when it will no longer be necessary for a man to say to his brother or to his neighbor, 'Know Jehovah'; 'for they shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them' (31:34).
Jeremy Motz (rhymes with boats) hasn’t really been onstage in about two years.
Jesus came to give us life today—not only in the future at the end of the age, but now.
Jesus says again, "They will put you out of the synagogues; yes, the time is coming that whoever kills you will think that he offers God service.
Jim Coplen, Business Managerfrom SACS, in saying that the yearly savings due to this expenditure would be $37,000 per year resulting in a pay-back in 8 years.
Jim Cramer  recently took some heat for suggesting that investors take money out of stocks if they will need access to the money in the next five years.
Jim McClure: Yeah but there are other things, we touched a little bit I'm very, very strong in the future of hydrogen technology.
Jim is confident that his locksmith skills will remain in demand in the future.
Jim told us that he was going to need help when he came back in a year to start a church.
Joan of Arc (c 1412 Joan asserted that she had visions from God that told her to recover her homeland from English domination late in the Hundred Years' Though primarily a dynastic conflict, the war gave impetus to ideas of both French and English nationality.
Jobless claims have climbed since January and consumer confidence in February was at the lowest point in 30 years barring the extreme lows in the fall of 2008 and the following spring.
Jock Stein died 25 years ago today after suffering a massive heart attack near the end of Scotland’s World Cup qualifier against Wales in Cardiff.
John 16:25 These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs: but the time cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs, but I shall show you plainly of the Father.
John 4:23-24, “But the time is coming—it has, in fact, come—when what you're called will not matter and where you go to worship will not matter.
John Berger, chief executive of Standard Renewable Energy, thinks that in the next decade the U.
John Smoltz's first start in nearly four years ranked with the worst of his career.
John's voice was the first heard from God in nearly 400 years, "prepare .
Johnny is now in a better place where he can relax and have no worries, and I know that you will all see him in the future.
Join our Mailing List to receive Clearance Sale & New Merchandise Notices and you'll be entered in a monthly drawing to Win a $50.
Join the Future of Music Coalition and a panel of radio and music experts in an artist and presenter-friendly overview and update for 2008 of how technology and law have impacted the media landscape in the last ten years, what’s next, and how you can make your voiceheard.
Jones felt sje was mistreated and will strive to improve our communication and processes in the future.
Jonny: Whatever we compare it to now, whatever we're striving so hard now to achieve, it's important to keep in mind, in the future, that's probably not what will even be considered beauty.
Jordan formed his own band, the Tympani Five, in 1938, issuing a series of popular records in the next few years.
Jorge guarantees that those who follow his simple exercise regimen and innovative metabolism-boosting eating plan will lose weight in only one month.
Josef Newgarden: Yeah like you said it was our best and I think it was a long time coming.
Joshua Skenes first came in to replace Bruderer around 2003, and within a year got hired away by Michael Mina.
Judge Herman Cahn ordered the showdown race to take place in 10 months' time in Valencia, Spain, or any other location chosen by Alinghi's yacht club SNG (Societe Nautique de Geneve) provided it notifies the challenger at least six months ahead.
Juju will be retiring in a year and live her remaining years here.
Jumpstart Your Career in 18 Months.
Jun 20, 2007) (“[t]he motion must allege, in addition to the lack of a deportation warning, that the defendant would not have entered the plea if properly advised and that under current law the plea does render the defendant subject to being removed from the country at some point in the future.
June 03, 2000 First Genetic Medicines Available in Five Years?
Junior year is in full swing and I’ve been starting to think seriously about what I want to do once I finish college in two years time.
Jupiter To Make Closest Move To Earth In 47 years  (http://discoverrei.
Jupiter To Make Closest Move To Earth In 47 years (http://discoverrei.
Jupiter making closest approach in nearly 50 years - phillyBurbs.
Just a hundred thousand dollar) earning blog in a year.
Just a thought…but I think it would be great if Saudis who graduated several years ago and now happily working volunteer to speak at local schools to juniors, seniors in high school stressing the importance of education and opportunity and how they, the youth, have roles to play in the future of the Kingdom.
Just as I’m sure someday in the future the same will happen with the new Caterpillar Engines we’re installing.
Just at this stage, the time comes to start to repay some of the extravagance(!
Just in case you change your mind in the future and want Notepad back, start typing “n o t …” until a file called notepad.
Just in time, too, I hasten to add, because I was experiencing the most stuborn swelling and fluid retention Leg Edema  health problem in my 50 years.
Just one more traumatic event in a year filled with turmoil.
Just remember that a little planning ahead of time will save you hours in the future and give you more time to enjoy your creation.
Just take a look at some of the things Google is doing now, which are large investment in the future innovations that save time.
Just to make sure that you take my notice seriously and in case others report the similar stories, someday this issue may be resolved.
Just waiting for someday will almost guarantee your unhappiness at work.
Just when you get it all straight, four years have passed and a leap year comes along to confuse the issue.
Just work in defined jobs with nice titles and even better career tracks with hopes to someday retire and finally be happy and do what you want.
Justin, not being “100% right” in 45 years is substantially different from being “completely turned upside down”.
KABUL, Afghanistan — A helicopter carrying international troops crashed in a rugged section of southern Afghanistan, killing nine service members in the deadliest such incident in four years for coalition forces.
Kansas / Hutchinson, KS Norwegian Elkhound puppies for sale Please check back in the future for next litter information.
Karen Abu Zayed, Commissioner General of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency, said in late November that the human toll as a result of the Israeli blockade on Gaza was the gravest in eight years.
Karl zu Ortenburg, MSc is a business and Internet strategist who has worked with a wide span of clients, ranging from entrepreneurs who “were not sure about the Internet” when they started with him, to business owners who made over $200 million in about three years.
Karzai also knows that many of these corrupt individuals are powerful in their own right and he might need them to resist the Taliban if that time comes.
Kate Hollywood is one of five players in the squad who won gold in Melbourne four years ago.
Keep a computer file or a notebook of all the stuff that can someday fill in an application.
Keep an eye out for him and Greg Oden to do some work together in commercials in the future.
Keep your eyes open for some new and interesting deals in the next 12 months.
Keeping in contact with your clients not only builds business now and in the future, but the ongoing communication makes you a better contractor today.
Keeping the socialist left in power means the end of this country, bankruptcy within 3 years.
Keith, I bet you'll make your quest in a year easy!
Kevin only lives a few doors away and I know my wife has gone over there for cups of sugar and such plenty of times coming back with that same freshly fucked musky smell.
Kevin still needs to complete some additional training; Joe stated that Kevin’s training would be completed within the next two months.
Killian stated landscaping irrigation was done in the medians, in front of the Village Hall, and Triangle Park would be included in the next year.
Killian stated most of the windows were in, the apparatus floor and the main part of the building were winterized and enclosed with temporary heat running; the basement, first floor, and 90% of the 2nd floor were studded, and drywall should begin within the next month.
Kind of like Street Fighter, where you “tech” (in Tekken we call it “break”) a throw by doing a throw back, in Tekken you break it by looking at what arm animation went out for the throw and break it accordingly (more on this in the fundamentals section in the future).
Kindle for Mac is a feature that is supposed to release sometime in the next few months and that will let you read on your Mac.
King has been constantly on tour, often performing more than 200 times in a year.
Kipp says Reuters was able to increase its visitors by 500% in 5 years, and that you have to constantly talk about search and SEO.
Kluck replied that it has been a concept, but there is no real plan in the future.
Knowing which rules to enforce at home, which products to purchase and choosing retail businesses that are making strides to provide healthier indoor air quality for their customers, can prevent many potential health problems in the future.
Knowledge of genetic testing results can help advise family members who are unaffected by cancer but worried about their chances for developing it in the future.
Kolkata-based Garden Reach Ship Builders and Engineers built these ships in two years.
Kornsiri Pinnarat, Customs Deputy Director-General, being as a representattive to join 135 years anniversary of the Ministry of Finance Founding and Honored-Certificate of "Honest and Trustworthy" Ceremony with the Minister at the Meeting room, Ministry of Finance.
LCRA and the electric co-ops and cities it serves are investing in the future of Central Texas with community grants, economic development services, education programs for kids, local parks and other community services, all without tax dollars.
LIMA, Peru – Global climate change threatens the complete disappearance of the Andes' tropical glaciers within the next 20 years, putting precious water, energy and food sources at risk, according to a World Bank report presented here Tuesday.
La Jolla,CA----Southern California home buyers and sellers continued to eye each other without doing much last month, resulting in the slowest January in nine years, a real estate information service reported.
Lake Amphibian   that maybe I'd like someday.
Lake Washington sockeye catch largest in a decade (News/article/sid=202.
Lamar Alexander, who has called for 100 plants to be built in the next 20 year .
Landmark Towers Project Noida,Landmark Towers Call 9818697478,Commercial Land in Landmark Towers,Landmark Towers Sec-15,Noida, Landmark Towers SECTOR 129 WISH TOWN NOIDA Provides 2-BHK, 3-BHK Fastest Possession Noida in 24 Months Apartment.
Lane’s End would like to thank the breeders, sellers and buyers who have supported us and we wish them all the best of luck in the future!
Language would include in the future, closer to generating traffic contemplated in the plan, with a different prospective on the fire station, the developer was providing the side-by-side four lane configuration even though it was not mandated.
Large portions of the nearly $37 billion in Energy Department stimulus money will fund renewable energy development and efficiency measures, making this “the biggest opportunity in the clean energy field in 30 years,” says the department’s chief renewable energy officer, Steven Chalk  .
Largest field in 20 years to run for Cup (main.
Last Christmas Eve, Treasury removed the $400 billion cap on what the government might be required to invest in these two GSEs in the future, and this may tell the real story about the cost to taxpayers.
Last night at the Rod Laver Arena, the carrot-topped alien was nowhere to be seen as the musical icon played his first Melbourne show in 16 years.
Last week I experimented with doing only what I wanted to do, in the moment, rather than things I felt I “should” do because it would bring me a certain result in the future.
Last week, Youngstown State University reported its highest enrollment in 20 years.
Last year Thompson initially predicted in a presentation at the American Association for the Advancement of Science that Kilimanjaro’s ice fields would vanish within 15 years.
Last year saw the second highest number of birds of prey "persecuted", poisoned, trapped or shot in a decade in the UK, the RSPB said.
Lastly, consider what kind of maintenance the watch will require, and whether you will ever buy another watch in the future.
Lastly, the analysis also supports Ohio State University researchers’ prediction that these unique bodies of ice will disappear in the next two decades, the victims of global warming.
Lastly, the consumers expect that this company will bring in the future.
Lastly, you hire the best looking salesman who has the best BS and then complain in three years because they didn't do the job that the guy who looks rough and didn't have a uniform did for your neighbor.
Later in his letter, John will tell his readers that deliverance from the present corruption of things lies in the future, a time frame with which “finding God in the now” is not compatible.
Later she tweeted: “Man it feels great reuniting with my best friend that i havent seen in 9 months…her name is COFFEE!
Latest Review on Sunforce 39191 123-Watt High-Efficiency Polycrystalline Solar Panel Module (10-Pack) Today we are going to introduce another super cool Sunforce product, Sunforce 39191 123-Watt High-Efficiency Polycrystalline Solar Panel Module (10-Pack) , more and more people are talking about this solar panel, seems it would be super popular in the futures, so let's find out why people lo .
Latha wants to visit me with her family someday, may be you and Siri can see her too!
Latoya London, known to her fans simply as ‘London’,came in fourth in a year populatedwith mostly mediocre contestants but three extremely talented young black females.
Lawyers for MilwaukeeCounty have refused to turn over a 2008 consultant's report on safety issues at the Mental Health Complex - the first time in 30 years that county officials have stonewalled a county auditor investigation, the current auditor said Thursday.
Learn how I built a residual 7-figure sales business in under 18 months.
Learn how I invested $400 and made it $4,000 in under 2 months time.
Learn to rebuild a stable credit score within 24 months after filing for bankruptcy withinformation from a lawyer in this free video on bankruptcy.
Learn what their values are, why they are so successful and what the companies aspire to in the future.
Learning about this subject will help you more in the long run than you may realize, until the time comes when you really need it.
Lefebvre says despite the current challenges, he believes Minnesota has the necessary foundation to continue growing in the future.
Legislation can be passed and implemented in 6 months.
Legislation has been drafted to give effect to the 4th EU Directive on company accounts and it is expected that this will be presented to the House of Assembly within the next few months.
Let it be a new town symbolic of the freedom of India, unfettered by the traditions of the past and expression of the nation’s faith in the future.
Let me deal with eternal damnation when my time comes.
Let those that live as remote as the bounds of the land which the Hebrews shall possess, come to that city where the temple shall be, and this three times in a year, that they may give thanks to God for his former benefits, and may entreat him for those they shall want hereafter; and let them, by this means, maintain a friendly correspondence with one another by such meetings and feastings together, for it is a good thing for those that are of the same stock, and under the same institution of laws, not to be unacquainted with each other; which acquaintance will be maintained by thus conversing together, and by seeing and talking with one another, and so renewing the memorials of this union; for if they do not thus converse together continually, they will appear like mere strangers to one another.
Let us all pray that the years ahead may be years of much growth for him and depth and blessing – that in the heart of Christ Jesus he may go more and more deeply into the mystery of the life God has given him as a holy gift of His enduring and shepherding Love.
Let us learn from the past to profit by the present, and from the present to live better in the future.
Let us live in grace before our time comes.
Let's not forget that a recall election can be called within a month, before people digest the devaluation, just as he is flush from having "listened" to el pueblo by suspending electricity rationing.
Lets take the example of today: If south asia’s current population of 1 Billion people were to experience a drop to 50,000 due to war…and someone were to look at this data of us 1,000 years in the future, would they be able to determine that the population was 1 Billion at our time, but subsequently dropped and than started growing over time again?
Letting the situation (now in the past) determine who you allow to help you in the future eliminates your ability to be a contributing team member.
Let’s hope the county can find a way to provide a book mobile again in the future.
Let’s pray that time will come that we can conquer all this conflicts and problems in our country.
Lewis: There are a couple of directions that we are looking to pursue in the next year.
Life care costs include both medical and non-medical costs an individual will bear in the future because of a catastrophic personal injury.
Lifetime member contributions must be paid fully in one year.
Light also recommended that Wyatt and Creasy pre-enter on the Internet for the rest of the NHRA schedule, which would solve the issue in the future.
Like I said, more in the future.
Like Traditional and Roth IRAs  , the different versions of the Solo 401(k) give you different options for managing your taxes both now and in the future.
Like many people involved with small press publishing, Cunningham, who will turn 40 in a few months, found his way into the industry in a wayward fashion.
Likewise, each would like to see fuel efficiency standards for cars and light trucks raised to at least 40 miles per gallon within the next few decades.
Linking climate change, green economic growth, and good jobs  , union members attending the Copenhagen summit are contributing a vision of labor’s role in the future economy.
Liquidity Stress Index Climbs For First Time In 16 Months.
List each one individually, rate, and compare to other changes to see what you might do in the future.
Little did Billingsley realize at the time that in the next 10 years he would develop his character sketch into the star of a successful comic strip.
Live neither in the past nor in the future, but let each day's work absorb your entire energies, and satisfy your widest ambition.
Live2air was not firtted on this aircraft, but I belie ve they will be in the future.
Living up here I havent seen them live in a few years.
Load your mobile photo sessions onto PC so that cherished memories can brighten you up in the future.
Locating the suitable lending or Discovery credit card, entails balancing your own mortgage preferences with your residential requirements, now and in the future.
Location: A Long Time Ago, but somehow in the Future.
Lombardi gives an example of dairy farms being required to keep paperwork on how much rain they get each day, though the state usually only experiences 5 to 15 inches of rain a year.
Long run Treatment insurance plan gives policyholders a fantastic technique to hold onto extra of their property if they ever call for intensive long-term attention no matter what the authorities will, won’t, can or can’t do in the future.
Long story short, I finished my Bachelor of Arts and my Master of Science within 4 years (summa cum laude!
Long term care is one of the fastest growing segments of the health care delivery system as more than 75 million American will reach age 65 in the next two decades.
Long trailer rides, settling in at a new place only to be relocated in a few months are all very hard on a new baby as well as the mom.
Look at how many lines and extensions you have at the moment and decide how many your company may require in the future.
Look at your projected overhead for the upcoming year.
Look for the number of science and engineering graduates to drop even faster in the future.
Look forward to reading more from you in the future.
Look what happens when a US President gets elected in a year with a "0" at the end.
Looking at GOOG, it just seems to be a money tree, HahaI picked it when it was $300, now is is up close to 50%, I definately see it goes up even more, may be a double from here in 6 months.
Looking into putting a built shortblock into my 99 GT here within the next 6 months and need to get the ball rolling on it.
Looks like I have some fun times ahead of me!
Looks like the vote is NO on the cookbooks, we may survey again in the future and base it on the type of book, but for now, it looks like this last cookbook is the last cookbook.
Loosely based on the Owen Wister novel, the series revolved around a foreman, played by James Drury, who went by the name The Virginian; his real name was never revealed in the nine years the show was on the air.
Lose Weight in a Month (loseinamonth.
Lots mo' in NoMa: Despite the recession, the Dunbar Place condo building is set to start construction  in the next month on North Capitol near New York Avenue.
Lots of fun, awkward, torturous, and evil times ahead!
Lots of games to be played in the future, and Survival Story will be up ASAP.
Louise worked for GM for 11 years and then she had another daughter Gail Robin then three years later had another daughter Laura Jean.
Love FG as well, someday want to pair it with a trip to Scrap (have you been there?
MJ – I like very much your phrase “humans have no right to use and murder animals” and hope you don’t mind if I use it in the future.
Mail returned because of insufficient address or address changes will be re-mailed if this office is notified of the correct address within 6 months of request.
Major complaints - low back pain 8 years, left upper neck pain several years, fatigue and no stamina most of her life, knee joint pain 6 to 7 years, canker sore on tongue 5 months, menstrual cramping as long as she remembers.
Major new infant formula and beverage manufacturing capacity that came on line late last year should further boost dairy demand in the months and years ahead.
Make a list of things that still need doing before you are ready to hibernate in the upcoming months.
Make lists to help you regain your confidence and identity: a list of your friends, of things you like, of what you want to accomplish in the next decade.
Make sure to begin or continue with Community service hours with in the 4 months of vacation.
Make sure you plan months ahead for your wedding day and make a list of the things you need for the preparation.
Making informed career decisions requires reliable information about opportunities in the future.
Making the forecast at a press conference in Beijing yesterday, Xin said his judgment was based on the slowdown in China’s manufacturing sector, whose output registered its smallest increase in 11 months in July – 12.
Making the “Joshua Tree” album for them was such an achievement already and yet within a year, they were able to released “Rattle and Hum”—how good can they get?
Malaysia and Philippines, both relatively new players in the medical tourism market, are expected to grow strongly in the next five years.
Mammadyarov presented the five year plan for the withdrawal of troops from Lachin and Kelbajar as a compromise, saying that former Armenian President Robert Kocharyan insisted on ten years, while Azerbaijan demanded that troops are withdrawn in one year.
Management studies are very important if one wants to shine in the field of business and corporate sector in the future.
Mandatory Helmet Laws were first instituted in 1966 and eventually repealed in 1975; ironically, the Federal requirement was withdrawn one year after most states finally complied with the 1966 Highway Safety Act and within 3 years, most states had repealed their complying mandatory helmet laws.
Many experts suggest that contaminated water will start seeping to the surface in the next 18 months, leading to public outcry.
Many fine residences have been erected within a few years and quite an improvement in business blocks is noticeable.
Many fund companies permit you to include purchases completed within 90 days before the LOI is signed and within 13 months after the LOI is signed in reaching the dollar amount of the breakpoint threshold.
Many good jobs will depend on this in the future, while no position in the 21st century is going to require the use of inches or pounds!
Many have a depressive illness that their doctors may not detect, despite the fact that these suicide victims often visit their doctors within one month of their deaths.
Many individuals who want to make provisions for their children prefer to establish deferred charitable gift annuities to provide assured lifetime income for them in the future instead of giving them lump-sum legacies.
Many of these subspecies groups may represent potential "splits" in the future (i.
Many of those children will enter school in the next decade, creating a need for teachers and school staff to be well schooled in assisting those students.
Many of those organizations may have to merge or affiliate with another to meet the demands facing them now and in the future.
Many of today's darlings of the IT industry won't be with us in 5 years' time.
Many people buy a house then have to move within a few years, due to divorce, relocatio(read entire article)  (article7280.
Many people have asked me what Attic Treasures they should collect, or which ones do I think will retain or gain value in the future.
Many people would kill to generate almost 2000 leads in a month, so that I why I was an expert.
Many things change within a year, and I only want to provide up to date information to my customers.
Many, many people bought homes they knew they could not afford because no down payment was required and the price of houses would only go up so, the worse that could happen would be they would sell it in a year or two for a good profit.
Mark 2:20, “But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and on that day they will fast”.
Mark Messier, who in 1994 led the Rangers to their first Stanley Cup title in 54 years, is returning to the club as a special assistant to general manager Glen Sather, the club said Sunday.
Mark for direction in the future, and suddenly I was overwhelmed with the conviction that, in the future, I must direct pilgrimages for youth.
Mark my words, children: in a decade, people will be freaking out about the mercury contamination in our groundwater from all the CFLs that have been dumped in the trash.
Mark, who hasn't raced in a 9 months, always runs fast on this track, and he runs a 43.
Market was -14% in the three years ended with the 1st Quarter of 2010.
Market was -2% in the three years ended with the 4th Quarter of 1991.
Market was -8% in the three years ended with the 4th Quarter of 2009.
Mat is usually conducted 4 times in a year in February, May, September and December.
Math Games (€3    pl=8tHzswCsPB5q_CHWy2z5XMROUURAQuEUyV381wmoT7RAnmpDP6BNPLCTkpyrK1tCyCJElKR4ntfXnmrVcOkwWpjABGwUwFZYC8EYCjLbE4ulUpDkzCjLd2OPY1BU7MTeSAMcmzZChTkN2hT10x-H4NE7cMIcU8mzZr7QZcawj3CpCe-D-oyWkZYALBIjixWgR6I5_HJ7XI0YEEjIIZaZLs4YqbenKhqbJ8NEnGWdkLVKfZb5y2rc4xvwOZUFFAx4u2SUy6KE8QpvW7PfLRfdafHqSSmnyXHfnzSjwKphjD4mZsBxYiGllMW55ePk5q_BgJNk4hUYhMDaSoO7P-v2j2nkwouNkTYoJNNkTEF55_JuoSNh9Ik0XBFu7TysVYegmk9lhyCqBsowESQIVcfUIBoIRgaB3IUUdCg2fem1e28Jvt0PtBu_IjKAyUBRchJ9yxtcprRwt6PqvKyt22JM0pn1oU5WSPgkX6xvMDLjcBLydQ73vkdCN5aemJ0iyWdlTDkINZrMXgUHqtrnAqa3eA7Pod8U67jimXAo9wP6lh1Iymc-Utczm35jnIBgMGxh8ct7n5rr0SYL67WQvCjskiaGvyatvtJ1tDiGb8ycpvalW8wG2KFieejxoYrGtm16kOQ2TCEIDfCL8sJ_wy8VS8Wv0A_jiF4PokUOEoNP0N59S0DU-hBsZadXoW9oGhFDiKC7LkPHp8HmSoYxMwEhhSAVIcYwZWyJPGI9vjBiArru-UNJWeWq1qYiMcF716IdDBlBGdZNYrE0JNGiV-UYXZ7bEqqKhzzktgKpMF76zLMcjwMoJMZz4P07Kdk0AKCB9DQymkbahAk9qU08CWgiaADQNI0GAA3qAQAajUyjTJ5qmCJETwb1NGoGGqABNT2pPZGpoWmTnhqT-qeSBqKnqckjPUFP2aRpMg0TYjLhaQpNT3pqo6YaVtEctloCQPD__7_w__-_8v8DQwBAgN8zAACxUxQRWVMmWUExNmhaQp0DAADw) Get your Degree in Education Media Design & Technology in 12 Months!
Matt, knowing that I expected to be proposed to, decided to try and throw me off a bit by telling me that he loved me very much and that he knew that someday we would get married, but that were just weren’t there yet.
Matusz’s first win in exactlyone monthmarked the club’s first winning streak since taking four consecutive contests heading into the All-Star break.
May 2010 ring in a year of simple beauty and peace; of awe and wonder in The Finer Things in Life.
May 6 (Bloomberg) — Coffee fell the most in a month on signs that supplies from Brazil, the worlds biggest producer, are ample.
May 6 The new suicide Mingjiao Lu in his last one diary reads: "to give up favorite public job: to help the west building, for the money, came to the company, poor results yin yang wrong went into research and development, to manufacturing, the money pretty much a waste of life and in the future .
May I ask if the donation is going to be in a monthly base or is it better for you to collect the money once and for all?
May I have to do violent actions in the future?
May I not hear, I pray, the voice of the wicked in the future; and may I not see any wicked person.
May knowing Sammy is happy and playing with new friends and is now watching over you, help you make it through the days and years ahead.
May there be no more great archaeological discoveries guided by them in the future.
May your Christmas sparkle with moments of love, laughter and happiness, and may the year ahead be full of wonders and delights!
Maybe AR is hot right now, but in the future it’s going to be fabulous.
Maybe I'll fulfil my wish of dreaming in the future.
Maybe a few more projects like these and there will be some imprint to steer me in the future but somehow I suspect my experiential amnesia will remain the same.
Maybe and hopefully someday.
Maybe another White Stripes record within a month.
Maybe at some point in the future, the two of them could try again, but right now, they’re just too different as people.
Maybe he like to be Apolo Ohno someday….
Maybe in a few months she could be the President of CALI!
Maybe in a few months.
Maybe in a few years we’ll simply say, “Open your cell phones and click on the Pageant narration app,” but I hope not.
Maybe in a year I will be preparing to travel the world, but I will keep my plan to a minimum because you don’t know what other opportunities could arise in foreseeable future.
Maybe in the future I should base the hours I start and finish work on when the sun sets, so that I'm always driving home an hour before hand, avoiding the problems darkness brings.
Maybe in the future all parties should listen to one another and actively seek solutions.
Maybe in the future we can join our coffee together in the early morning and smoke some Dutch tabacco and taste the most lovely cornbread Í ever had and the lovely spareribs at Davy Crokett’s restaurant.
Maybe someday I can convince him to start his own blog.
Maybe someday I will get the boxset and have a LOST weekend.
Maybe someday I will have a blog that has a ton of how-to and keywords.
Maybe someday I'll be able to celebrate it in eretz Y'israel and Yerushalem!
Maybe someday I'll be lucky enough to get an invitation.
Maybe someday all of you will have a PDF “penned” by myself filling your hard drives.
Maybe someday huhhh!
Maybe someday if you’ll write SG1 fics – this is a yummy plot.
Maybe someday in the future i can perticipate in something like this with more confidence.
Maybe someday there will be a fifth generation at the business.
Maybe someday those who took the Bible from that country home in the sand hills of Nebraska will open it and discover God's gift to them.
Maybe someday we will wake up to the fact that there are no LATINOS.
Maybe someday you'll be lucky enough to get a devoted Blood Mate of your very own.
Maybe someday.
Maybe u will someday look back on this, and realize that its a big mistake, do u want it 2 be like that?
Maybe we can meet together someday for it.
Maybe we shall get back in the future, with better contents, tools and knowledge.
Maybe we'll meet someday.
Maybe when the set times come out we'll figure something out.
McGuinty, again with Smitherman as his line minister, is again demanding speedy results, dismissing public concerns about industrial wind factories and solar farms as "nimbyism" and promising to create 50,000 green jobs within three years, apparently no matter how much it costs in the inflated prices for energy Ontarians will pay.
Me too, I have a 95 SuperIII an 05 Sprint ST and my old T160 that will someday be rebuilt.
Meanwhile I look forward to a visit again in a few years when the dream of the James Beard Public Market that is being planned will have become a reality and I can wander through the stalls and visit with the vendors and learn more.
Meanwhile the Ecuadorean capital of Quito could face increased water costs of up to $100 million annually in the next 10 years as rising temperatures deplete nearby glaciers, Vergara said.
Meanwhile, Master Builders Association Malaysia is expected to benefit the most from the 10th Plan financial allocations in the next five years.
Meanwhile, Survival International reports that tribal peoples are being attacked by the private army of a logging company, which, in a six month campaign of terror, has killed and tortured villagers, burned down houses, destroyed rice stores, and driven thousands from their homes.
Meanwhile, learn to write so you can set a goal of starting a blog in the future.
Medical Debt Help got me in contact with specialists who helped me state this now: "I will be debt free in 6 months!
Medical science may someday develop a cure for AIDS; it will never heal the loss of integrity.
Meditate on what you'll need to do to prepare yourself to return to it when it becomes accessible again in the future.
Meet the CWCC staff, Benefits at each membership level, Committees and volunteer opportunities, Leads groups, Upcoming monthly and special events.
Member access to, or use of this Provider Website before such time, does not entitle Member to use of this Provider Website without charge in the future.
Members have 30 days to reply to the Private Message Winner Notification sent by the Gun Dog Chat Admin or the prize will be forfeited and drawn for again in the future.
Members, you and I will work together in the months ahead on other issues: productive farm policy -- a cleaner environment -- broader home ownership, especially among minorities -- and ways to encourage the good work of charities and faith-based groups.
Membership is usually free, although members are asked to provide hospitality to others (on a voluntary basis) in return sometime in the future.
Mercer County, West Virginia: Mercer County is one of the 100 Best Communities for Young People for the third time in four years.
Mesut Ozil Free In 12 Months Time!
Michael Leighton stopped 30 shots in his first start in nearly two months to help streaking Philadelphia beat the Boston Bruins 2-1 on Wednesday night and force a seventh game in Boston on Friday night.
Michalczyk stated that the policy has been revised and all contractors and residents should not deviate from that policy in the future.
Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates on Friday indicated that Windows 7, the next major version of Windows, could come within the next year, far ahead of the development schedule previously indicated by the software maker.
Microsoft Word is generally not associated with students, but the time comes when the loan runs low and students can no longer spend all day in the pub.
Might throw another one in the future.
Might use this someday considering that most of the problems today is money.
Mike is a real blue collar guy who also wants to be an actor someday.
Miller elaborates: "For one day, lets join together as a community, and celebrate our strong bodies and contribute that physical strength and endurance to raise money for those people who are in need today and for those who will be in need in the future.
Millions of people visit casinos in the United States alone in a year where they spend plenty of cash.
Min 20 Hrs/wk Min 3 months Summer interns $7 - 7.
Mine surprised both me and its neighbors when it became over 6' wide in two years.
Mini's product portfolio will double in the next two years as Coupe, Roadster and Crossover vehicles are added to its existing Hatchback, Convertible and Clubman models.
Minimum wage has increased by nearly one-third in three years while funding for nonprofit youth programs has remained flat through three legislative sessions, Bonnie Smith, executive director of Jonesboro-based Consolidated Youth Services.
Minkow and the FDI have agreed that they will not trade in USANA's stock in the future, will remove information regarding USANA within their control from the internet, and will not publish any further statements about USANA.
Minorca, like many holiday destinations, has adapted to a fast changing holiday mix, but will no doubt hope that there aren't too many change of habits coming along in the future!
Missing copies will be replaced free of charge if a request for replacement is received by the publisher within three months of the date of issue for domestic and Canadian subscribers and within six months of the date of issue for others.
Missing four days in 15 years, even when he was busy crime fighting, now that might fall into the dedicated or the crazy -- crazy about baseball -- column.
Mittal forecast that the modern or organized retailing, which currently stands at 4-5 percent, will grow to 20 percent in 10 years.
Mix Publications Global Color Research creates its own colour trend predictions two years ahead of season, with the collaboration of industry colour specialists from all over the world.
Mobile Visions may choose in the future to charge for use of the Service.
Model Driven Development will mature in the future “Oslo” effort and EF will figure prominently.
Modern money is essentially a promise that one may access resources in the future.
Mom grinned and reached for me, she pulled me close and we kissed, not the kiss of a son and his mother, but a deep passionate kiss, the type a 13 year old imagines he will someday experience with his first lover.
Moms and dads would like the excellent for their babies and the world they'll someday call their own.
Monteleone says cheesemakers might need to adjust their business strategies to survive the lean times coming after the first of the year.
Moorewould bethird Tangipahoa Parish schooladministrator in 13 months who Kolwe, Board allow to retire without meeting 'return to se.
More Monopoly money is printed in a year than real money throughout the world.
More persistent or severe symptoms may not surface for a decade or more after HIV first enters the body in adults, or within two years in children born with HIV infection.
More photos will be added in the future.
More racers will have to choose between their club races and the Lucas races in the future.
More successful trials have led the drug manufacturers to expect approval in 2 years.
More than 150 years in the future, the world has transformed into an unrecognizable state where all that remains are a dwindling human population and merciless robots left over from wars long past.
More than any other movie Channing has coming out in the next two years, I am the most excited about this film.
More than three hundred men and women had been shipped from Earth five years ahead of Edmund -- along with most of the expedition's massive equipment -- chilled down to near freezing aboard four slender robot freighters, riding sunlight behind gossamer sails a thousand kilometers across.
Moreover, from a theoretical standpoint, we are hoping that in the future we will be able to rely not only on serum PTH but also on circulating and other markers of bone structure and function for the assessment of renal osteodystrophy and on markers of cardiovascular disease related to secondary hyperparathyroidism (172).
Moreover, the development of I Ola Lahui was encouraged by the TAMC training program as it is believed that our community-based training model will be an important vehicle for training psychologists in the future.
Moreover, this approach is hardly going to become the dominant one in the future: object-oriented approach has been popular for 20 years, yet many developers still confine themselves to procedural code.
Moreover, this assembly size can be doubled within a few months when needed.
Moreover, this library allows you to register your own system events and define cross-cutting concerns for them in the future.
Moss is a polished route runner who could emerge as the Giants 3rd receiver early in 2006 with the potential to replace Amani Toomer opposite Plaxico Burress in a year or two.
Most Web browsers automatically accept cookies, but if you prefer, you can edit your browser options to block them in the future.
Most analysts believe that nearly all notebook and smaller computers in the future will feature one or more PCMCIA slots.
Most curricula can be accomplished within one year on a part-time basis.
Most die within a year of detection.
Most horses develop sufficient immunity to control the infection within one year, and become inapparent carriers of EIAV.
Most important volunteers should try to develop activities/programs that can be sustained in the future.
Most likely those people were no longer Directs, only people who wore the pin and were recognized on stage because of a certain three month period 2-10 years ealier.
Most notable in this period is that nonminority men had the lowest success rates in all five years.
Most of the breweries here brew less than your local brewpub in a year.
Most of the immigrants from other countries are told that if and when the come to the US and want to start a business, go into the Black communities because they spend the most money, and they will be rich in 5 years if they do.
Most owners and operators that have swimming pools will likely have to provide a pool lift or some other means of accessible entry within 18 months, unless they lack the financial resources to do so.
Most people have a picture in their mind of where they want to be in the future, even if it's not clear.
Most people who have lithotripsy for kidney stones are free of stones within three months of treatment.
Most readers of Apprising Ministries  know that a still unsubstantiated charge by Abanes alleginglibel in my three year oldA Pastor’s Assessment of Richard Abanes   successfully blew upAM’s old website.
Most readers of Apprising Ministries know that a still unsubstantiated charge by Abanes alleginglibel in my three year oldA Pastor’s Assessment of [.
Most recanalizations occur within 6 months from the time of surgery and later recanalizations are possible, though not probable.
Most web browsers automatically accept cookies, but if you prefer, you can edit your browser options to block them in the future.
Mr Lewis, who lives with his partner Dianne, 46 and his two other sons, Gareth, 17, and Aled, 19, has been able to return to work for the first time in 15 years because he is no longer needed at home to care for Ellis.
Mr admin please guide me… F7 video lectures of lsbf are of June 2009… I will be giving exam in dec 2010… Arn’t things changed in a year and a half….
Mrs Bailey, who took Sidney in 10 years ago, said he had the run of the farm, but had a favourite spot where he spent the nights which was out of sight of the road.
Mrs Rose added that, within a month of her husbandâ€™s death, she had been asked to look at schools for Felix, but in the end had been refused a place for him at Donaldsonâ€™s despite a psychologistâ€™s recommendation that he should go there.
Ms Scott says in her 12 months in the position, people in the regions have told her they are frustrated with the lack of funding for basic programs.
Much as the United States now looks to the Middle East for much of its energy needs, it may someday rely on China for most of the equipment require .
Much of science fiction is a speculation into what would happen if one or two current trends ended up being the dominant trends in the future.
Much of what we are here on earth to learn about is not only ourselves, and each other, but also how to exist in the future in the unknown alien Xenoverse.
Mullenweg also mentioned a goal of including this same feature for themes in the future (i.
Multiply that amount of time by 20 (which is approximately how many customers call each day to check on an order), times it by 5 (working days per week), times that by 4-5 (weeks in a month) and when all is said and done, about 40 man hours each month are spent unproductively, satisfying customer curiosity.
Murder At Locker 02-069  - The story of one of America's first school shooters, a brilliant loner, and what he has become in the 23 years since.
Musical set in the future, e.
Must take place on a mutually agreeable weekend morning within six months.
My Dr explained the no-biopsy scenario and based on his observations, etc and then says he believes it appears as if it of the benign type, but since I have never had a detailed eye exam in 43 years I need to go back in a few weeks and get remeasured, tested and such, if there is a change, then get it out.
My Kindle battery failed within 3 months.
My Story – Read how I lost 54 pounds in 3 months.
My approach to journalism – and my patience – have been tested in five years at The St.
My beloved and I used condoms carefully with no problems for 2 or 3 months, but after dealing with their inadequacies and noting that it would actually be cheaper to be on the pill than pay for the number of condoms we tended to use in a month, we went to a walk-in clinic and got a chat and a free two month trial from a guy who had totally stolen a labcoat and was pretending to be a doctor.
My best round was an 88 -- that's the lowest score I've had in a year.
My brain of mush has sprung back into action and I am amazed at my ability to retain mostly interesting information and some "fun" facts that I will probably never retrieve in the future (now that the final is over).
My budget includes the largest increase in defense spending in two decades -- because while the price of freedom and security is high, it is never too high.
My cardiologist suggested that we re-visit that issue again in three months.
My children were very young, and besides needing to have adult company, I also had an idea that I might someday write and illustrate my own children's book.
My eight years of looking at research have convinced me that executive functions are involved in the life skills that I see as most essential to our children thriving, now and in the future.
My expectation of the future is that eventually the area on and near the equator will become uninhabitable to humans during the summer months(but that is many years in the future) because of the intensity of the heat.
My family is mum and the younger brother, he has finished school and now serves in army and will come home in 1 year.
My favorite is Jennifer Aniston and I will marry her someday.
My final post for 2005 is simply to wish you and your loved ones all the best for the new year ahead.
My first arrest in 5 years!
My first glance at the questions that Adrian asked us to answer regarding the development of our “Life Purpose” stopped at “if you could do things differently, what would you like to be doing in 5 years?
My friend Kate and I had been lamenting only this afternoon about the fact that neither of us had heard in a long time from our American friend JD in a year or more.
My friend told me to try the chat room, and within a month, Michelle came on the site.
My hope is that someday the same type of insensitive comments that some people posted to Pamela’s article will not occur for future articles due to increased awareness, understanding, and sensitivity in our society regarding infertility.
My hope is that, in the future, large numbers of Finnish behavior analysts will attend behavior analytic conferences in Europe, the United States, and elsewhere in the world.
My husband and I both need to lose weight because we are going to be seeing family we haven't seen in 25 years.
My husband and I met on your great site and within a year we married.
My interest in 2 months went from the comfortable 9.
My jaw hit the ground in total amazement because there are guys @ the Atlanta Ballroom Dance club that are light-years ahead of me.
My lazy, stupid, ex-bitch has not worked in 10 years and constantly takes me back to court to get more money.
My looks the best it ever has in the 13 years I've owned it.
My next travel destination is Philippines and I wish I can visit Maldives and Palau at some point in the future.
My personal challenge is my Caribbean Countdown ~ in 3 months we are going on a cruise for our 1 year Wedding Anniversary ~ I will weigh less than I did last year and look amazing in my swimsuit.
My personal racing results were less than I had hoped for in college, but the education, opportunities, and life experiences that I received in my four years at DU are invaluable to me.
My personal research goal is to achieve an indefinite lifespan for human beings, and I think we have a fair chance of doing it in about 25 years with the right funding.
My point is that in an art form only a little over a hundred years old I find it alternately funny/sad that we vigorously compile sets and lists to mete out the good from the great from the gods when in 500 years who knows what will be looked upon from this time as truly worthy.
My prayer for each of you is that you might live lives which are holy, blameless, and above reproach so that someday the Lord Jesus will say to you, "Well done, My good and faithful servant.
My prediction is that workforce-planning, better assessments, scalable hiring processes, and hiring managers handling most hiring personally will become standard operating procedure within five years.
My problem is that I would like to date, but I have not dated in 4 years.
My understanding is that the Spire is waiting for sales to begin until they are within two years of completion – something about taxes?
My weight was never out of control until I had my son and got put on bed rest, at that point I put on 40 lbs in 3 month.
Myth 2 states that “renewable energy” can reduce dependence on fossil fuels significantly in the next 25 years.
NACAC started in Montreal 31 years ago and meets in Canada every five to six years.
NAVS hopes that with the continued development of alternative methods, “animal tests, like the slide rule, will someday be made obsolete by advancements in technology.
NBRI's cotton should be commercialized in the next three years.
NET blogging engine in the future, if Ivan goes one builiding and maintaing it.
NET or Java community leaders have switched to Python and Ruby, and are using them for their career; therefore, probably it will be a need for many of the programmers to go through such big changes in their professional life in the future, too.
NORTH FORT MYERS, Fla- Lee County is looking for your input about what the county should look like in the future.
NOTE: INFORMATION ABOUT PHYSICAL ADJUSTMENT TO TREATMENT, PROBLEMS WITH PHYSICAL AND COGNITIVE DEVELOPMENT, AND LIFE AFTER CANCER TREATMENT WILL BE ADDED TO THIS SUMMARY IN THE FUTURE.
NOTE: In the future you might find it helpful with similar problems to clear your cache and cookies before refreshing and trying again.
NaNoWriMo, or National Novel Writing Month, is an online activity encouraging people to write a 50,000-word novel in one month.
Nadal defeated Soderling 6-4, 6-2, 6-4 to win his fifth French Open title in six years.
Nail have fallen off twice in 6 months!
Names the Tennessee Mountain Man has not heard in legal and law enforcement circles in 20 years are popping up again.
Naturally, it took the rise of post-modernism in the next decade for people to notice the greatness in it, but Carpenter at once understood the complex layering of pop imagery, and was off to make We Live.
Nearly 1 in 10 of us (8%) use an e-reader device, and 12% of us plan to buy one in the next year.
Nearly one-third of the $140 billion in venture capital commitments made in the two years represents uncollected commitments.
Need to lose weight in a month?
Needs change, and in a few years that license you spent a lot of time and money acquiring may not be worth much more than the paper it is printed on.
Never can say goodbye… Now, that being said…please post kind words and tributes to Michael in the comment box in the future.
Never failing to provide entertainment over the course of the event, this years music line-up is topped by funk pioneers George Clinton & Parliament Funkadelic who will be gracing the World stage for the second time, as well as LA Latin-based hip-hop, funk and soul group Ozomatli who will be returning to Houston for the first time in a few years.
Nevermind India, China, South America, Africa in 20 years, etc.
Nevertheless, the milling companies say the forecasted increase is the first in two years and that the actual increase would be lower compared to the last increase in 2008.
Nevertheless, there are people out there who resist the urge to buy it whenever the time comes to replace the furniture in their home or apartment.
Nevertheless, within a year PPA was removed from all the products containing it, and replaced with other decongestants.
New York and New Jersey, where we hope to be operating in a few months, are two states with innovative programs and op .
New cars lose about 40% of their value within 3 years, then depreciation starts to slow down.
New research from the University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston finds that nearly half of women using depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA), commonly known as the birth control shot, will experience high bone mineral density (BMD) loss  in the hip or lower spine within two years of beginning the contraceptive.
New technologies are impacting the energy industry now and will continue to do so in the future.
Newberry is on injured reserve for the third consecutive season and the fourth time in nine years with the 49ers.
Newbie bhouse sitter/b Norma sits All solar home in Sonora deserta Posted by admin Oct 6 month assignment in the Sonora desert in a all solar home, I love new situations!
Newer computers - within 3 years - handle this much better.
News that another club they claim to subsidise, MTZ-Ripo of Belarus, have failed to pay some staff in six months has renewed concerns.
Newsletter: Please send me further information in the future.
Next month comes the official launch of the Royal Institute's Science Media Center.
Next week I leave on the 15th for Founder’s Circle, and then4 days after I’m back, my husband and I are leaving for a 14 day trip to Europe (a Mediterranean cruise) – our first trip without kids in 12 years!
Nickelback - Someday.
Nigeria: 19 Million Nigerians Treated for River Blindness in 12 Years  , Peter Duru, AllAfrica.
Nike has been focused on building their brand in the country with the largest population in the World, and they hit the $1 billion in sales  mark a year ahead of thetarget they had originally set.
No Interest if Paid in Full in 24 Months!
No Investment Required, Commissions Paid Weekly, Protected territories, Residual Commissions, Bonuses, $100k ++ potential within 24 months.
No New Posts $500,000 in 3 months  (.
No doubt in the eighty years ahead much progress would be made.
No doubt the time will come when its true character shall be felt.
No doubt, Cafe has been one of the top success stories in two years of dreariness for the appliance industry.
No harm done, but consider this info in the future.
No information on this site may be published either electronically or on hard copy or in any other format now or in the future.
No issue in my 31 years as bishop has been more troubling and disturbing to me than the issue of sexual abuse of children by clergy or, for that matter, by any person, whether connected to the church or not.
No land board can predict with certainty what revenue-generating opportunities or resource conservation and management concerns may develop in the future.
No matter how good you are in your job, or how succesful your career has been so far: thinking that the way you work now (including the skills and knowledge you use) will be the same in two years, five years or ten years time is, for most industries, an utterly irresponsible attitude.
No matter if you do not have connections there, it won't stop us from using your services in our plans to travel to Arizona and hopefully Hawaii in the next year.
No matter what happens to us, the bottom line reality is that all of our experiences in this lifetime will come to an end at some point and in some way.
No matter what you're planning for the year ahead, if health is a priority, then laughing should be one as well.
No more than 1 Large Event will be approved in a 2 month period (Halloween and X-mas are the ONLY exception).
No new posts Stephen Henighan on Canadian publishing in the future (viewtopic.
No new posts [ Poll ] WOW - Long time coming.
No one likes to think they may need to be taken care of someday but the truth of the matter is that many of us will need some kind of help at some point in time due to mental or physical disability.
No one that's what happens when you sit back and watch your team go straight to hell within 2 month's.
No question, under current market conditions, it is better to walk away, take the credit hit for 3 years, rent, and come back to the market in 3 years buy under FHA when homes have stabilized at the bottom and get on with life.
Nobody else needs to know, ever, unless you choose to tell, or unless you need to tell a Judge about it in Court someday.
Nobody thinks to retimber for protecting nature; and no one also does not think of holding the natural sites to preserve the nature of attack of reheating of nature: This nature is denatured It does not have there to hope within 20 years if one does not think of using the policy of afforesting and nature conservancy.
Non-local graduates who submit applications to the Immigration Department within six months after the date of their graduation (i.
None of the patients had been given immunosuppressive therapy in the six months prior to the study.
None of us can make up for the killings in the past, but there is a possibility that our being in jail during this time might help stop such insanity from being repeated in the future.
None of us has been gang banged since although I'm not ruling it out in the future.
Noninvasive cancer places the woman at a higher risk for developing invasive breast cancer in the future.
North Korea announced a plan to develop a light water nuclear reactor powered solely by self-produced nuclear fuel sometime within the next decade.
Not bad, considering the feeble on-field performances in the last couple of seasons and the declining share price (down 15% in five years).
Not because she would someday be less than a footnote in Slayer history, but because she wanted to really mean something to him.
Not in a million years!
Not in a million years.
Not in the past or in the future, but only now in the present moment can you have presence, awareness, being.
Not long ago, freelance journalist Ashton Lattimore had an opportunity to sit down with Jonathan and pick his brain on MMT and where he sees the theatre going in the future.
Not much is likely to get better until the program is finished in six years.
Not only can you reduce excess body fat without hunger and fatigue, but you will also reduce Silent Inflammation levels throughout the body that dramatically affect your quality of life today and many years in the future.
Not only does video playback test just a small portion of Flash's capabilities when compared to interactive education and game content, but HTML5 is clearly a better platform for video delivery in the future.
Not only was this guy one of the coolest Koreans I’ve met in my eight years here, he was also extremely sensitive to a “foreigner’s needs.
Not only will there be 5 Million NEW households will be online in the next 5 years but there will be a TOTAL of 83 Million households will be shopping online by 2015.
Not only would it usher in the most fertile and productive period of his life, but within two years, Albert would be producing the most astonishing array of original papers on physics in the history of modern science.
Not revealing such data may indeed someday be seen as antisocial.
Not to mention she hadn’t been DP’d in a year, so you know this scene was a nice little treat for both Ashley and my lens!
Not trying to lay any guilt on you here, just informing in the hope that you'll do differently in the future.
Not within a month or two, but within a year or two.
Not without its controversies, residents are hoping for the triangular park to become more ‘park-like’ with in-ground trees and some curbs in the future.
Not, only will they increase your privacy, decrease the outside light from entering your home, but your house will look better now and in the future.
Note that for non-mask images, the input data may be in any color space and may have any number of bits per component (1, 2, 4, 8, 12); currently mask images always have 1 bit per component, but in the future, they might allow multiple bits of alpha.
Note, this is THE WORST DROP IN 6 DECADES!
Nothing validates the service of our professional staff and volunteers and honors the legacy of the patients for whom we have been privileged to care more than having our friends make a long-term gift to assure that nonprofit hospice care will be available in the future.
Nothing was said of this nature at any time in the 4 months it took to sort out hospital to home.
Notice that in the Earth rotation example, we're not even addressing about whether the INDIVIDUAL still shows up at the precise location necessary in the future for the process of time travel to have been initiated.
Nourkrin hair loss treatment can be bought in a monthly supply but it may make sense if you regard hair loss treatment as an on-going process to buy three months’ supply.
Nous of bad times ahead, while rain was a sign of good fortune and a strong harvest.
November 2009 existing home sales rose again, marking the 15th consecutive month that sales have increased in a yearly comparison, according to Florida Realtors (formally known as Florida Association of Realtors).
November13November13:Can I Sell My Business, Someday?
Now Available a sign up sheet for events and fundraisers for the upcoming year see how you can help your support is greatly appreciated Find Out More (/departments/blue_ridge_rescue/rescue.
Now Haiderzad is back in Afghanistan for the first time in 23 years, returning at the request of the interim government to organize reconstruction of at least one of the statues.
Now I am in Acapulco with 8 friends wearing a bikini for the first time in 20 years!
Now Michele's an electrical engineer (and Doug, someday you could probably recount the project y'all worked on back there in college), and while I'm nowhere near as qualified as her, I'm a comm-badge-with-star-and-wreath wearing senior member, so we're trying to figure out what the problem was.
Now for the first time in 30 years the auto show in Britain is back in London in 2006 with a new look.
Now here’s the killer: 72% of CIOs have no plans to use blogs in the next 5 years; 74% no plans to use wikis (a scientifically representative telephone survey of 1400 CIOs, not a self-select, voluntary web survey).
Now in the fifth year, the competition has grown leaps and bounds, expanding our competition location footprint by more than 60 percent in one year,” said Dan Fishback, President and Chief Executive Officer of DemandTec.
Now indeed can I serve Thee out of pure love, since I may not expect reward in the future world!
Now it sometimes comes a bit back because the chemical balances in my hair got changed due to hair colorings.
Now saying what I have just said is just that, it should not be taken that I am trying to get any business from this firm if it should be around in a year or two…they would never hire Nazarian and Associates anyway….
Now that I am on a payment plan I will be debt free in 24 months.
Now that the announcment of Disney's 10 "Platinum Editions" have been made (The first of the 10 being "Snow White & The Seven Dwarfs", but "Jungle Book" will be one of the other 9), this "Jungle Book - Limited Issue" is a fine way to have the film until the full-fleged "Jungle Book - Platinum Edition" is released sometime in the next decade.
Now the game is transforming into each team having one superstar that will dominate, usually by having the rules bent for them, and maybe in the future the whole team idea can be thrown out and every team will consist of 3 men and we can witness a real life version of the old score video game NBA JAM.
Now to find a way to protect it so that when I speak on that topic in the future I can bring it with me.
Now to the track for the first time in two years next Friday!
Now, all you need to do is follow these solutions and you won’t have to confront these problems in the future anymore.
Now, between us, we've managed to get through almost an entire bottle in a few months.
Now, our meditations on the Guideposts for the End-time Believers has made us consider again the issues that should guide our lives so that even though the end time is coming with great challenges, the believer who is committed to the Lord Jesus Christ will know how to walk - how to order his steps so that nothing will go amiss and he will not be ashamed on that day when we meet our Lord face to face.
Now, with all the young and highly touted defensemen having already graduated to the NHL, this year’s Caps rookie camp is without an attention-grabbing blueliner for the first time in a decade.
Nuclear power has the potential to play a huge part in the future of energy.
Nursing careers flourish in an environment of excellence, and the facilities within the SSFHS healthcare system are committed to continued excellence in the healthcare ministry, both now and in the future.
O thou Mowgli—for Mowgli the Frog I will call thee—the time will come when thou wilt hunt Shere Khan as he has hunted thee.
O'Leary also said it was important that the growing minorities living in the North would also have to be convinced in the rationale for Irish unity, noting that there was a significant population of Poles living in the North who are generally Catholic and could be a significant voting block in the future.
OMG just telling you now is making me crazy - in the two years we've been together - I have never seen him cum so hard and so much.
OMG, TJ Hill makes his first big play in five years and picks off Durant!
ON Kernkraft GmbH ensures a safe, environmentally friendly and secure power generation from nuclear energy – now and in the future.
ONGC Said to Plan $5 Billion Spending to Boost Gas Output 60% in Six Years(27-07-2010)Learn More (News_Details.
ORG: As a Free Public Service we start with a belief that the efficient use of energy can help save you money, now and in the future.
OSA is proud to be a sponsor of IONS-NA-2 and looks forward to continuing to support these events in the future.
OTL has a nice sound; it just remains to be difficult to replace all those tubes when replacing time comes due.
Obama health care issues are going to heat up even more in the next few months as the health care reform bill is being debated over.
Obama last week tasked a new commission to make proposals within two years on how to better manage used nuclear fuel and waste.
Obama promised to close the infamous facility in one year after he took office, but the facility still holds over 100 prisoners today.
Obama will travel to North Carolina — a state that has not voted for a Democratic presidential candidate in 32 years — to start a two-week tour of speeches, town hall forums and other appearances intended to highlight differences with Mr.
Oberto to its second-straight National High Points championship this season and his fourth driver's title in five years.
Obtaining written permission to provide the test result to others in the family who are at risk can avoid vexing problems in the future should the individual not be available to release his or her results.
Obviously if something were to happen with your bank, it can take some time to get 100% your money, but in the 75 years the FDIC has been around, they have maintained a solid record of coverage.
Obviously it means that Lazarus was dead, and then raised, but would die again at some point in the future.
Obviously, this blog has a lot of unanswered questions and maybe LEF will do some more testing in the future.
Obviously, toll-road owners will NIMBY any change in the future to their cash-cow.
Oconomowoc develops and grows in the future.
Of course all just to get you looking closer to the game as it is releasing in the next few months.
Of course having your connection string in a variable as pashott and Mike stated, will make the package more dynamic and easier to switch out or modify via a config file in the future.
Of course i am dreaming of becoming the top club in london as a spurs fan who has not missed a home game in 10 years dispite living 300 miles away ( 600 round trip) i dream each and every year thats what football is all about.
Of course it’s a good idea to start decreasing our use of the usual energy grits but if the resources are truly going to be depleted within the next few years then all the profits and advantages from this use will be almost not significant.
Of course someday maybe everyone will be flying their cars to work and to play.
Of course what has happened in the past is not always an accurate predictor of how any kind of stock will behave in the future.
Of the 121 students who signed up for classes, eight withdrew from the topic, including six withdrawals within one month of commencement of classes (the official University cut-off for withdrawal without incurring fees).
Of the 15 territories with less than 180 acres of "quality habitat" only 8 produced at least one fledgling in five years.
Of the 18 territories with 180-348 acres of quality habitat, 16 produced at least one fledgling in five years.
Of the 19 territories with more than 348 acres of quality habitat, 17 were successful at least one in five years.
Of the four groups comparable within specific years (Asian, Black, Hispanic, and White), Hispanic candidates had the highest success rate in five of the eleven years (1990-91, 1991-92, 1992-93, 1993-94, and 1999-2000); and Asians also had the highest success rate in five years (1995-96, 1996-97, 1997-98, 1998-99, and 2000-01).
Of these executives, close to half said they either have enterprise applications or business processes running in the cloud or will begin migration in the next year.
Office of Technology Assessment and right here at Cornell, "Dump the Dairy Board," an organization comprised of 16,000 small family farms, estimates that 30% of remaining family farms will go bankrupt within a year and half due to the widespread use of BGH.
Officially launching this project which is seen as an effort to position the party well ahead of the 2010 national elections, UDJ is currently working to open thirty offices in various cites in a month’s period.
Often though the tree partially recovers and leaves begin to grow again in a month or so, not as good as before but they can grow.
Oh and FYI, this blog has some of the most lucid and rational arguments I’ve seen in my 10 years of veganism.
Oh, and in 20 years or so, when you have your Renewal of Vows  Ceremony, be sure to invite me!
Okay I'll register for the panel then when the times comes.
Okay, I joined, I look forward to posting in the future.
Old News - Somedays (/m/misc_unsigned_bands/old_news_-_somedays-lyrics.
Old hippies don't die, they just lie low until the laughter stops and their time comes round again.
Older cadets would sometimes come and take the girls away, in small groups, for exercises and drill or to work in the kitchens or at the hotel.
Oleg Sorokhtin, Merited Scientist of Russia and fellow of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences, and staff researcher of the Oceanology Institute, also predicts that within ten years we will have global cooling, and gives some very interesting information to back up his prediction.
Olin Kreutz had established himself as a sure thing for the starting center spot in Hawaii each year with his tough play, but he will miss out on the trip for the first time in 6 years.
Omiya, so far removed from Tokyo yet, on a Takasaki Express, only twenty minutes from Ueno, was once thought to someday inherit that title of New Capital of Japan.
On April 28th, 2008 – just a few short months ago – I announced a crazy concept: I wanted to ‘prove’ that the millionaire-making methods that I talk about on my blog How to make $7 million in 7 years are real and work … … in fact, [.
On Facebook, I have reconnected with a couple of friends I haven't talked to in 10 years.
On LinkedIn, I have reconnected with a couple of friends I haven't talked to in 10 years.
On March 8, 2004, Iraq issued a tender for Kirkuk oil via the Turkish port of Ceyhan, the first such sale from Iraq's northern oil fields in a year.
On Monday, September 15th I have to go take care of some business and will be back on this site in about 3 months.
On October 12th we are proud to release Sufjan Stevens’ first song-based full-length album in 5 years,The Age of Adz.
On Places, Thomas Fisher argues that designers need to develop practices that not only respond to crises that have happened but also proactively intervene in disaster-prone areas, with the goal of limiting damage in the future.
On TV, Peter Jennings opened the international news by announcing that Nicaragua is going to have its "first free election in a decade.
On a peak day, the VocaLink automated payment platform processes over 90 million transactions and over half a billion in a month.
On acting in the future:”There’s not, like, a burning passion in me that I have to act and I don’t care what I do.
On average you can get about 10 credit cards with up to 30k balances paid off in 3 years using this plan.
On contrary, Sevilla is hoping for the third Champions league group stage appearance in three years.
On taking office, Obama immediately accelerated the plans, and they are to be deployed several years ahead of schedule, aiming specifically at Iran.
On the bright side half of all SPL sides said there had been no added pressure from their bank in the 12 months, although this presumably means that half of clubs did feel such pressure.
On the contrary, “dieting” often results in weight gain several months or years after the initial weight loss.
On the one hand you can have Brown's Labour promising to hit you where it hurts in the future, or Cameron's Tories promising to create an economic stimulus by cutting tax and letting us all individually spend our way out of recession.
On the other hand, a gas mower can use $700 or more in a year for gasoline, purchase of parts and payment for tune ups and oil.
On the other hand, the rule defining market swings requires two consecutive negative excess returns to signal a downswing, and these do not begin until five months later.
On top of this, there is a problem of chronic under-investment by oil-producing countries, a feature that is set to result in an "oil crunch" within the next five years which will jeopardize any hope of a recovery from the present global economic recession, he said.
OnFriday, anappeals court inBangkok ordered his extradition within three months tothe United States, where hefaces criminal charges that could put him inprison for life.
Once I was done I invested $400 and applied the steps that I learned, and watched my money grow to $4,000 in under Two months.
Once he hears about it or reads about it, the story idea is recorded so that it can hopefully be used in the future.
Once in 52 years I’ve had an emergency.
Once in three months, the fecal samples may be examined for presence of any internal parasites like hook worm, round worm, tape worm etc.
Once just a regional carrier in Canada, Telus has transformed itself in seven years to become a national player that works with hundreds of operators worldwide.
Once purchased, an updated mailing list may be ordered within one year of original purchase for $50.
Once the use of this power has been activated, failure by the campers to comply with the Police instruction to leave, or if that group returns to the same land within three months, they commit another offence for which there is power of arrest.
Once you have defined several locations, you can save this information as a route, allowing you to travel the same path in the future.
Once you've reduced swelling in your arm or leg through other measures, your doctor may suggest you wear compression garments to prevent your limb from swelling in the future.
Once your body has fully healed, it is important to come in for periodic adjustments to avoid problems in the future.
One Alive Ebook author added 7,000 names to his email list in 6 months.
One aspect of Christian debt counseling is that counseling helps to maintain finances of the person so that he does not end up with the financial woe again in the future.
One day in that same year, 1935, Sister Faustina wrote for her spiritual director: "The time will come when this work, which God so commends, [will be] as though in complete ruin, and suddenly the action of God will come upon the scene with great power which will bear witness to the truth.
One false private revelation contradicts another because the fallen angels have no idea what will happen in the future.
One hell of a knight in 50 years.
One hundred galleries are projected within a few years.
One hundred of the critically endangered Kihansi spray toads, bred in laboratories in the United States, were returned to Tanzania last week where they will live in the area for the first time in 10 years.
One interesting thing about ER1 is that it went from prototype to sitting on CompUSA shelves in about four months.
One key feature of the BMS programme at Abertay is the extensive training in laboratory-based skills provided in all four years of your studies.
One of the children, an eight-year-old girl, has lived in 20 homes in five years.
One of the great accomplishments of 2007 was that a large number of companies went through the export learning curve and now they’ll be better prepared to respond to the needs of the overseas market in the months and years ahead.
One of the key additions to our reporting suite is the ability to not only download a report immediately, but to schedule the download for a date or time in the future.
One of the key features of the 100m span is a capability to cope with the addition of a light transport system, such as a tram, in the future.
One of the many downsides of this is that it will limit your ability to get approved for new lines of credit in the future.
One of the more lesser known rpg game that has been release in the last couple of months amongst the bigger rpg games so we like to give it a bit of spotlight before making way for the bigger games in the next month or so.
One of the most gifted scientists Louis Pasteur said, "Because I am a scientist, I have the faith of a French peasant; if I continue to study science, someday I may have the faith of a French peasant's wife.
One of the most outstanding players that I’ve coached in 44 years .
One ppm is comparable to one minute in two years.
One someday I swear I should write a book about.
One task that is due in a month could be something I need to be actively working on right now, and another task that is due tomorrow isn't something I need to even think about until tomorrow afternoon.
One thing is clear, however, businesses across all sectors and of all sizes need to concentrate on efficiency improvement if they are to survive the turbulent times ahead.
One wad was more then Raymond had shot in a year and there were at least five wads.
One who given mutuality of interest and regard would tend to have me as a wife someday.
One, how come the Pakistan Army, the ISI, the Intelligence Bureau, Military Intelligence and the Frequency Allocation Board could not find Mullah Radio’s FM station in six years?
Only in the unusual case of an extremely rapid rise in the futures price might we find ourselves closing out the entire position at a loss.
Only much farther in the future when this camera is truly an antique might it actually be worth a lot more.
Only the original packaging will still have any meaning in a thousand years (this is China we're talking about, 1000 years is nothing).
Only time will tell if “Heroes” and other widely popular series today can gain such notoriety in the future, but it is highly doubtful.
Only time will tell what new twists and turns the journey might take in the future.
Opacification of the posterior lens capsule occurs in 30-50% of patients within 2 years of cataract removal and requires laser treatment; a further 0.
Opening and maintaining a savings account is how you establish membership in Austin Telco, and our line of deposit accounts are sure to have a solution to not only meet your needs today, but also accommodate your financial growth in the future.
Operating the in-house system will cost about $60,000 a year, saving $240,000 a year and achieving payback of the capital investment in only five months.
Operations director Pete Gronback said full details of the system were still being worked on, but trials would start in the next two months, with a couple of local businesses.
Opposition to reservation, free & mandatory English medium education leading to jobs, stringent action against terrorists and criminals, judgement in courts within 3 months, Rs 600 p.
Optimists see the positive events in their lives as evidence that more positive things will be happening in the future.
Option ARM Silent Bomb: $189 Billion in Outstanding Option ARMs with $134 Billion Recasting in 2 Years.
Or are you waiting for your kid to come and pick up the car in a few months and want a place to store it safely?
Or perhaps Culligan was talking about what will happen after it expires in ten years.
Or probably somewhere in a two month period even?
Or they can look at nearly a decade of steady export expansion and virtually unanimous projections that, in the years ahead, worldwide demand will grow faster than available supply (driven disproportionately by emerging markets) and that traditional exporters like Europe and Oceania will be unable to fulfill it.
Or they get divorced, with all the potential grief that entails, but with the hope of a happier life in the future.
Oral Health care for children or infants varies slightly from that of adults and it helps if you take your infant to a dentist within 6 months of the appearance of the first tooth.
Order one pair of the ugg boots, you will feel better in the future and be the leader of the future's fashion !
Orientation topics will include: Meet the CWCC staff, Benefits at each membership level, Committees and volunteer opportunities, Leads groups, Upcoming monthly and special events.
Originally booked for 75 shows over three years, The Red Piano exceeded all expectations and proved so popular with audiences that Elton completed the original commitment in only 18 months.
Orton looked fantastic in his second year under McDaniels’ offense, and has shown this entire preseason just how much he has improved in 12 months time.
Other Current Liabilities This includes all other sundry creditors, accrued expenses and pre-paid income, including dividends, corporation tax, social security or other sundry amounts payable within one year.
Other TTEs too take rest for 4 to 5 days in a month but Mr X is take 26 days rest and 4 days to 5 days he is doing his duty.
Other cats that have a strong immune system are able to clear the infection within two months.
Other companies have a need for GPS tracking today, but may consider a wireless mesh networking or RFID technology in the future.
Other errors may join, invalid_auth_code in the future.
Other proposals include a "three strikes and you're out" approach to bar managers caught supplying minors within a two year period.
Other side effects have been random breast tenderness, random tummy tenderness (like tender ovaries), minor facial zits for the first time in my 20 year existence (no really, up until the pills I'd had 8 zits.
Other swindle, works For us the driver of the bus 16 years Victor Shapiro he in America 20 years to him 75 years, all these years he works and earns 550.
Other times, recruiters may not have any openings for someone with your experience, but may in the future.
Other times, we might have more than one litter in a month's time.
Other topics that should also be discussed at the early stages include level of Islamic knowledge and practice, future career and education plans, home making skills and where the couple will live right after marriage and in the future (state and/or country).
Otherwise, do like most people and upgrade when the time comes.
Our 'years ahead' prophecy now is at about 7 years before somebody else figures out what we already know.
Our Client, a Manufacturing located in Solo, is looking for a professional, who is committed to be a part of their team as: Sales/Marketing (To be placed in big cities all over Indonesia) Requirements: Male, max 40 years old Hold Bachelor Degree Having experience min 2 years as sales/marketing/promotion .
Our Easy Option spreads out the cost of your order while ensuring you`re paid off in 24 months or less.
Our Last Day - Someday (/m/misc_unsigned_bands/our_last_day_-_someday-lyrics.
Our assessed value has dropped by $134,000 in two years.
Our campaign to improve student safety has begun with top-tips from Alan Fletcher (aka Karl Kennedy on Neighbours) and competitions to win a year's rentand VIP festival passes.
Our church is very far from our home and we used to go church once in a month and it used to take 5 hours walking to reach the church.
Our conclusion is that the world faces an increasing oil supply challenge, as the decline in existing production is not only high now but will be increasing in the future.
Our current way of living is toast in either case, and will vanish within the next few decades; the only question is, what will replace it?
Our deep understanding of past and current trends help make sure that our strategies are just as effective in the future as they are today.
Our expanding global business allows us to offer qualified technical and commercial specialists a variety of exciting tasks, giving them the opportunity to accompany our company on track to further growth and the worldwide expansion of its production capacities during the upcoming years.
Our experience with this method in 25 years of teaching is that it is generally inferior in its results to the Play by Choice method.
Our failure or delay in enforcing any provision of this Agreement at any time does not waive our right to enforce the same or any other provision(s) hereof in the future.
Our generation, therefore, faces a tough time ahead.
Our home value has dropped by over 30% in two years.
Our local chapter of Net2 has been instrumental in harnessing this energy and building a community of techies, now 175 strong in only 8 months.
Our near term (within 2 years) goal is budgets of $100k per month.
Our overarching goal remains the same: to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and to prevent its capacity to threaten America and our allies in the future.
Our pricing is simple, you get a website that ranks great and sells cars, combined with all our features for one low price, in a month-to-month agreement.
Our short time together was due mostly to the circumstances of him being a traveling preformer and leaving town in 2 months.
Our skilled mechanics take the time to educate you about your car's problem and what type of maintenance it needs in the future to continue running smoothly.
Our subscription plans not only assure that you will receive all updates to the current release versions now and in the future, but they also assure that you will receive priority support, as well as free updates to newer major releases in most cases.
Our top up degree for local polytechnic graduates allows you to upgrade to a Curtin degree in 8 months!
Our undergraduate entrepreneurship major is designed to prepare those students who will someday pursue an entrepreneurial career.
Our wedding is in 3 months and we would like to learn to dance and not make fools of ourselves at our own wedding!
Out of this, the India-based call centre services market is pegged at US$200 million and is expected to cross US$1 billion in around five years.
Outgoing President Michelle Bachelet says she’s leaving Chile in good shape in the wake of the February quake, handing off the government to the first right-wing president to be elected in 52 years.
Ovambos in the future government of independent Namibia.
Over $14 million in 3 months is a lot for a company with such small sales figures to lose ($4.
Over 40 per cent of law students fail the bar on the first try which means doing it all over again in six months.
Over all after 1200 miles in one month of riding, I have no serious complaints here.
Over all this show is not to be missed and I look forward to seeing more of her work in the future.
Over and over one is thrilled by a sympathetic realization that the vanished man who pointed the camera at some particular scene felt precisely the same pleasure in a telling composition of landscape, in a lifelike grouping, in a dramatic glimpse of a battery in action, in a genre study of a wounded soldier watched over by a comrade-that we feel to-day and that some seeing eye will respond to generations in the future.
Over the past five years, the average US house price has risen by 50 per cent, half the rate of increase in UK prices in the five years to summer 2004.
Over the years ahead, this policy will help to reduce wasteful federal spending by targeting federal funds to the highest priority water resource projects.
Over the years children's bedding designs have always been dictated by the most popular characters around at that time but will this still be the case in the future?
Over the years he has reached number one with, "Rose In Paradise" by Waylon Jennings, "Chasin' That Neon Rainbow", "Someday", "Chattahoochee" and "Who Says You Can't Have It All" by Alan Jackson.
Over the years, the old bare-bones ordering form had consistently generated a fair amount of online revenue for Merritt's, but within a month of launching the 2006 online store we saw Merritt's online revenue double!
Overall, as a technophile, I love this piece of equipment, and look forward to seeing how they improve it in the future.
Overflowing Landfill An average city dweller may produce a ton of refuse in a year, a volume that rapidly overflows local dumps.
Overseas drug firms are aggressively ramping up business in emerging markets, which are projected to drive the $837 billion global pharma industry in the years ahead.
Owning Intel 14 times in 10 years isn’t being a long-term owner by Strine’s measure.
O’Donnell could win if enough reasonably moderate Democrats realize a Coons vote will stick them with a marxist who can never be unseated while an O’Donnell win will give them a Senator with no power other than to be a check against the radical Congress/President, and it will expire in 4 years when O’Donnell will certainly be defeated (unless she pleasantly surprises the moderate Democrats).
P90x willundoubtedly have 1 million “likes” sometime in the future, I just wonder how long it will take to get there.
PASADENA - A volunteer committee and a hired energy consultant are working to create a road map for how Pasadena will meet its energy challenges in the future.
PE or EIT who can take exam within 1 year.
PLANS to begin quarrying in a new area close to important Neolithic henges near Nosterfield are to be submitted to the council within the next few months, an action group formed to protect them has learned.
POLICY CHANGE: 'Twice In a Month' Rentals Are Now Allowed In Our Facility.
Pampers and other major disposable diaper manufacturers spend a great deal of money on advertising and marketing and it is therefore not uncommon to find promotions where you can receive a free sample pack of diapers and in some cases you could even win a years supply.
Pandemics typically infect about a third of the world in a year or two, and sometimes strike in successive waves.
Panzica Investments was formed and Cathy committed to invest in 24 companies in 18 months to jumpstart Cleveland's economy.
Paper could, therefore, actually be more compatible in the future than any of today's conventional data-storage options.
Parallel this with the fact that Los Blancos are not the most patient club in the world when it comes to backing their managers, Pellegrini being the ninth different coach in seven years testifies to that.
Parliament heard yesterday that Government has plans to remove 6,000 children from the streets in the next three years.
Parliamentary approval for the construction of the Hardanger Bridge over Hardangerfjord in Norway is due to be sought in the next few months.
Part of the problems in good times for Governments is that they tend to expand, then when the lean times come they find it very hard to contract backwards again.
Partying and good times come together until the sun comes up.
Patent licensing and technical-assistance agreements need not be recorded in the Patent and Trademark Office to have legal effect, but if an assignment, grant or conveyance of a patent is not registered within three months of its taking place, it might be void against a subsequently recorded purchase.
Patient 10 was electively transferred to HD before January 1988 for recurrent peritonitis (6 episodes in 39 months).
Patients who do not immediately stop smoking may be motivated to quit in the future.
Patients who have bleeding related to this condition despite having had colonoscopy, angiography, or surgery are likely to have more bleeding in the future.
Patients who take part in clinical trials also help improve the way cancer will be treated in the future.
Patrick says he and Boudreau hadn’t spoken in a month at that time.
Paul Burnley, an analyst from automotive market research firm SBD, said cars in the future would be among the first to react after a crash.
Paul has already posted an article about the rice crop problems, more and more problems much worse then this will continue to rise up in the future if we don't do something about global warming.
Pavol and Peter don’t just look out for their own achievements they invest heavily in the future as well.
Payment of dividend shall be made within one month from the date of the meeting of shareholders or of the resolution of the board of directors, as the case may be.
Payments may be made in 12 monthly installments.
Paz said it would invest 136 million shekels in refining projects in the next two years, which will increase operating income by $40 million starting in 2012.
Peace Games is truly a wonderful in-school peace and justice education program serving children in grades K-12 (currently in the Boston and LA areas and expanding) that I have no doubt they will someday be the nation's premier Ballwin Mar model for in-school nonviolence programs, and a leading partnering organization supporting the annual SNV campaign.
Pending homes sales are now predicting a fall of existing home sales in the next few months.
Penis Enlargement Pills contain a powerful natural herbal penis enhancement formula that increases sexual desire, sexual health and helps to achieve stronger erections within a month no negative effects only have positive effect try our herbal formula to enlargement your penis size with guaranteed.
People always told me that someday, I was going to be someone.
People can really perceive how scarce this opportunity is going to be in the future because so many other projects here are being postponed or canceled.
People from all reaches of the globe travel to San Francisco in hope of seeing first hand what hot new Apple products and technology will set the pace in the upcoming year.
People have not changed in 2008 years.
People kept telling me, ‘You’ll never work,’ and I said, ‘I’ll have a billboard in a year’—which I did with CADDYSHACK.
People love this car for what it is, and Smart USA is confident there will be plenty of them willing to make the jump from gas to electrons once the first vehicles in the test batch arrive in about four months.
People should look forward, not backward, and work to bring the water budget sheet back into balance throughout the whole basin to prevent these types of crises in the future," said Glen Spain of PCFFA.
People with a family history of diabetes or those who are overweight and lead sedentary lives should undergo a test for diabetes once in six months.
People would have to judge others (including their leaders) for who they were in the present and what they might be in the future rather than for their past.
Perfectly aligned for the first time in 2000 years to a Star of David configuration, these planets and objects will form a Grand Sextile of Earth and Water signs which is being called a Harmonic Concordance or the opening of the portal of Concordance (Concordance means Heart).
Perhaps Amazon will fix this issue in the future.
Perhaps because Wing knows I will only send the best, they have never denied anyone I have sent for an interview in 6 years.
Perhaps in the future we could find a way to balance the two.
Perhaps in the future, Fortune will change her plans, and we will meet again in other circunstances.
Perhaps in the future, a U.
Perhaps new technologies and industries can develop and help get us back on a path to higher growth later in the next decade.
Perhaps paid days off for a particular type of volunteering will convert into increased sales to teachers in the future.
Perhaps someday I will get an email from him telling us he has become a Christian!
Perhaps someday the American media will give GM and Ford the credit they deserve.
Perhaps someday the mysterious chemical nature of the inheritance of defects will be understood, and a simple chemical correction made or gene therapy performed for most of them.
Perhaps someone will invent a silver pencil in the future and you can make your own silver pencil shavings, but until then this is the only pencil shaving that you could wear around your neck (for more than one minute).
Perhaps they stepped it up in a year.
Perhaps, in the future, medical device manufacturers or government regulators will take actions so that we can collectively "recognize, anticipate, and defend against new paths to failure that arise as organizations and technology change, before any patient is injured".
Personal information data will be terminated and destroyed within 3 months from the date closing Lunia GSP service terminated completely.
Personally, I had high blood pressure and a normal vegan diet cured my problems in 6 months.
Personally, campus has been a sweet experience with only one thing missing - there were no jungle-jackfruit hacking experiences unlike my time in the seven years of primary school.
Perspectives: What does FSPA hope for the land trust program in the future?
Pete Irvine, lead author on the paper, points out there are likely to be disagreements over any future geoengineering schemes: “If there is a large amount of global warming in the future there would be no strength of geoengineering that would be best for everyone: some may be better off without any geoengineering while others may do better with a large amount.
Peter Gray believes that in 50 years from now, the educational system will change to something more like the Sudbury Valley School (Children Educate Themselves IV: Lessons from Sudbury Valley  ), where children teach themselves in a democratic setting where they are allowed to do as they please, within the boundaries of a set of democratic rules, without any supervision by adults or coercion.
Peter says the vision for the business now and in the future is simply to produce the best quality for valuejewellery for their customers.
Philosophy Blues Original is a strong brand which this season, and in the future will show that provocative fashion and good taste are found in the estetically right combination.
Physically mature for his age, the precocious teen was frequenting the gay bars and clubs of San Diego years ahead of his contemporaries.
Pickens also opined that oil will someday reach $170 a barrel, but without giving a date.
Piedi semi play-offs are happening in the next month with the greatest teams trying out for the top spots.
Plaintiff will require medical care and medication in the future and will experience pain and suffering in the future and has been permanently injured.
Plan administrators are required to give at least 15 days' advance notice of plan amendments that significantly reduce the rate at which plan participants earn benefits in the future.
Planning for the financial success of your practice is important but if the practice depends solely on your work or if you have to bill a certain number of hours in a year you must keep yourself physically and emotionally fit to give your practice your all when you are working.
Planning to buy within the next 6 months?
Planning to sell within the next 6 months?
Plans are also in the works to manufacture ranges of men's, women's and children's polyester fleeces from recycled plastic within a year, and to extend this method to other polyester ranges such as trousers, suits and furniture "fill" by 2012.
Plasmids have evolved in the ten years that you were gone.
Plastic top corks are suitable for corking wines which will be drunk within a year after being bottled.
Play a role in the future of brands.
Players will revisit some old areas to see how they've changed in the 10 years since the original game.
Please Note: If you choose to attend the "Accessibility Consulting, Home Modifications, and Assistive Technology" 2-day seminar or Internet-based Training within one year, $25 will be refunded from the cost of the seminar if you bring your Manual and receipt of payment (in your name) with you to the seminar, or fax your receipt for the Internet-based Training.
Please Note: If you choose to attend the Accessibility Consulting, Home Modifications, and Assistive Technology 2-day seminar or Internet Training within one year, $25 will be refunded from the cost of the seminar if you bring your Manual and receipt of payment (in your name) with you to the seminar, or fax your receipt for the Internet Training.
Please Note: If you later choose to attend the "Sensory Motor Activities on a Shoestring Budget" 2-day seminar within one year, $25 will be refunded from the cost of the seminar if you bring your Manual and receipt of payment (in your name) with you.
Please be aware that The Kitchen Table is currently in a "Beta" state — meaning, you may notice small changes and improvements in the future as we take time to consider your feedback and make this truly your space.
Please buy a copy for everyone on your holiday gift list, one to keep in the plastic and sell on Ebay in 20 years, one to watch, one to lend out, one for your local firehouse, and one to take around and get autographed by all the stars at the Big Damn Sequel Premier.
Please click that link to allow me to send you MORE FREE REPORTS & business building information in the future.
Please consult them and let me know how to pay in the future.
Please follow the rules in the future.
Please know that even if I told you before that I just want to retire, I would feel guilty if I don’t offer to help you now as you begin your six years as President .
Please know that we are fully committed to ensuring that we promote healing and econciliation, guarantee effective response to allegations and protect the faithful in the future.
Please make a note of the username and password that you select, as you will need these anytime you come back in the future to access certain features of this system.
Please note Vizag is 1000 times ahead in the race for next capital city.
Please note that we reserve the right to change this policy at any time in the future, with or without notice.
Please note that, if you do not develop an approved outline into the first draft of your paper within a year of the outline's approval, the topic and outline must be revalidated by the accreditation department.
Please note we do recommend you immediately remove the flint from any collectible Zippo lighter you currently own or purchase in the future.
Please note, this was an over the counter product I do not use anymore and hope someday is off the market!
Please note: We do not accept any responsibilty for policy or URL changes which are made now or in the future and which may affect any one of these packages.
Please post a date that is best for you and we will work it out and choose a date here in the next month for the trip.
Please remember that postal regulations prohibit us from including advertisements, and that we need information two months ahead of actual publication dates.
Please remember that there is no mileage limitation for the repairs, but that the deadline (#4) for obtaining most repairs is within 3 years of when the car was first sold or leased.
Please schedule at leat 1 month ahead of projected meeting date.
Please take a moment to bookmark our site (or add it to your favorites), so that you can find us again in the future.
Please use our on-line Information Request Form to learn more about any charity on this website, learn more about Charitable Choices or receive our publications in the future.
Pls give her a hug, and knoe that she will not hold any of this against U later (maybe in a year she will hide when she sees U get out the wet-wipes, but she will still luv you).
Plus, read up on ur info before ya talk, Microsoft is planning on upgrading everyone's xbox 360s to blu-ray sometime in the next year for a fee somewhere between 50 and one-hundred dollars.
Points will be good for some cool free stuff in the future.
Poor old Bridger came up in his nightshirt, hardly awake, both hands up in surrender—his second surrender in four years.
Pope Benedict XVI arrives in Britain today for a four-day visit - the first papal visit in nearly 30 years and the first state visit by a Pope to Britain since the 16th century when King Henry VIII broke away from Rome and formed the Anglican Church.
Portal of Hope: In the six years since it was set up, Dr.
Possibly a trip to warmer climates could be in the future if we click.
Postpartum depression, which is diagnosed if a new mother develops a major depressive episode within one month after delivery.
Poverty rate rising to its highest level in 15 years in 2009 and a record 43.
Power Plant changes Inner Harbor in 10 years (sub.
Power even with the driver and uses the information that in 500 meters, one for him yet hidden speed limit exists on gently to delay, rather than on the brakes abruptly to rise, with proactive management in the future energy consumption by 5-10% compared will.
Poya starts preparing for orders about three to four months ahead as she needs to travel to stock on fabrics used in her designs.
Practically every boy in the world dreams of being a professional wrestler someday.
Presently it support AutoCAD R14~2006 and IntelliCAD 3~5, and will support other CAD platforms in the future.
President Craig thanked all for their input and noted many decisions would need to be made in the future.
President Doug DeVos, son of co-founder Rich DeVos, has made his first visit to Australia in four years.
President Wang Dazong told Reuters on Friday the company plans to announce a grouping of its passenger vehicle businesses within two months -- a crucial preparatory step before floating the unit.
Previous Jason Segel Plans to Leave 'HIMYM' in Three Years (/article/17/article-1715-Jason-Segel-Plans-to-Leave-HIMYM-in-Three-Years.
Prevue Hendryx revolutionized the Pet Cage Industry world wide again seven years ago by bringing designer colors to our cages.
Prices for corn in the future could increase as Newsom believes the market will be well-supported by outside investors, or funds.
Printon co-developed the BackFit 5 Injury Prevention Program which focuses on the belief that proactive changes in our lives and specific posture improvements and exercises can prevent health problems in the future.
Probably because everyone has been warned “Tough times are ahead”.
Probably we'll support this in the future.
Procter and Gamble’s (P & G’s) Stedicor is expected to lead sales in the atrial fibrillation market in the next few years.
Product info Face Time comes to iPod touch Don’t just say hello Smile.
Production possibilities in the future will be exactly as they are today.
Projecting the number of students who will attend school in an upcoming year is extremely important.
Projections are that half of all page views will be viewed from portable devices, rather than desktop PCs, within five years,” says Paul Firth, product manager at Accusoft Pegasus.
Projections indicate that systems combining the functions of space and water heating with mechanical ventilation will take over half the market for new HVAC systems within the next 15 years.
Proof is in the fact that Obama will not pull troops out of Iraq quicker than would have come out per Bush’s schedule, GITMO will not close (to skirt this issue prepare of Obama to announce it will close in the next 5 years to avoid the problem entirely).
Proper safeguards must be followed in the future or prison time for those who refuse.
Proposals funded in any one year are not assured of future funding.
Prostvac is just beginning the trial process and there is no way to predict what will happen in the future.
Provenge, about which I have written extensively, will hopefully be approved by the FDA in the next few months.
Provide compelling content which caters to the interests of your visitors and you will keep them on your site once they have arrived and motivate them to return in the future.
Provider reserves the right to charge a fee for access to or use of this Provider Website, or any Provider Internet Service available on this Provider Website at any time in the future.
Purchase one that you can also use for different websites that you may place up in the future.
Purchase product worth Rs 10,000 and get Rs 20,000 back in 20 months.
Purchase three business after hours and receive the fourth one free (click on the special option when you register--business after hours must be used within one year of purchase).
Purchasing North Slope gas in the future would be a lot more expensive, said Harold Heinze, the authority's chief executive.
Purchasing a Mack Extended Service Contract means that you are making an intelligent investment in the future of your electronic equipment.
Pushing your feelings out and a head enables you to perceive information in the future.
Put these documents in a safe place that you will remember so that if any questions arise in the future you will be able to find these documents in a timely manner.
Q: I have not used my NiMH batteries in several month and they are not holding their charge.
Q: This is your seventh book in seven years, and all of them have been New York Times bestsellers.
Q: Where do you hope to see yourself in five years?
Q: Will I graduate in four years?
Q: Your content isn’t good enough for a cookbook right now, maybe someday.
Qualified advice is only worthwhile if it is adhered to, a debt counsellor can assist to make a sensible program and therefore favorable, notwithstanding the person has to be enthusiastic to adhere to a good strategy and that often means changing long standing self-destructive actions, this sometimes comes more difficult to a good number of people, when a person is happy to follow good information, however also motivated to strengthen their own inner strengths, the road could possibly be long, but it will be easier.
Quoting Garry Shilling's comments from John's article: "If you look carefully at the CPI figures (and tinker with the monthly numbers), you'll also discover that even if the figures average a 2% annual rate in the months ahead, the year-over-year headline CPI inflation rate will be pushing 4% by November.
RACINE - In the next two years, Mayor John Dickert has vowed to reduce the city's greenhouse gas emissions to less than 1990 levels.
RB Greg Jones  will be sidelined for the season with a torn ACL for the second time in five years.
RB Steven Jackson  , who had arthroscopic knee surgery after his final season at Oregon State and following his rookie year with the Rams, said, "First time in three years I actually had an offseason.
RW - Is there a PDL or Y league team in the future?
Rabbi Kaduri also stated that the upcoming year would be a year of "secret and revelation" in the world.
Rajiv Gandhi was the fourth prime minister of India in four decades of independence, but t.
Raz said that he hopes that a separation plan will be implemented in Hebron for the sake of the Jewish settlers' security, a plan that will include the evacuation of Hebron in the future.
Re Kurosagi the Movie: if you watched the series and hated it, there’s no way in a billion years you’re gonna like the movie, w/c is 224307 times worse because it has these quasi-literary pretensions (quoting Shakespeare!
Re big enough for my “main” TV has become my house, but also something that I was able to connect an Xbox 360 and (when the time comes) a PS3 as my Blu-ray.
Read a variation of one of Aesop's fables and then hike into the woods to discover how its insect inhabitants are preparing for the colder months ahead.
Read how a 40 year old female sexual predator blamed a 7 year old boy whom she claimed was " coming on to me" and whom she "hoped to marry someday.
Read on to see what I did to drop 52 pounds in 2 months.
Read this article Mike, and tell me your thoughts “The 4 Reasons Why Women Reject Men  ” it’s actually a pretty good article, I must say I learned most of this stuff through simple trial and error years ago, but if you can jump start your learning process you’ll be years ahead of the game…After you give this article read then we can talk about pheromones  and your realistic expectations in regards to them.
Ready to move in in 4 month after down payment.
Real catchy song, pity they didn't go on to bigger things in the future, their albums contained some great songs.
Really, in ten years I’ll only be 74, and so I may still be competent to drive.
RealtyTrac senior vice president Rick Sharga said such a climb “would be unprecedented,” adding that lenders have historically taken more than 100,000 in a year.
Receive and you will prosper in the future.
Recently I received the second order and look forward to patronising your business in the future.
Recently, I visited Australia for the first time in 24 years, and my holiday turned into a pilgrimage.
Record players were not too far off in the future.
Recovery of erectile function usually occurs within a year after having a radical prostatectomy.
Recreational scallop seasons opened in 2002 for the first time in about 10 years.
Recurring Monthly Customers: AircraftMarketPlace will bill your credit card on your anniversary date for the upcoming month.
Redis can't be considered a successful project yet, it's just too early, however the followings are a few concepts I learned in the last months that I feel like to share with you in the hope that I'll be able to apply this ideas in the future, and in the hope that programmers interested in creating a new open source project will find something interesting here and possibly avoid some mistake.
Refinancing your mortgage throughout times of low rate of interest is a best way to factually save thousands of dollars on your home mortgage over the upcoming years.
Reflect on how far you’ve come in a year and how lucky you were to find each other.
Reflection is a way of slowing down, and yet gaining great insight to help us speed up in the future.
Regarding US consumer response, 64% of the consumers surveyed value the benefits of genetic engineering and have confidence in scientific innovation that will bring benefits in the next five years.
Regarding the 67th Street ditch retaining wall, IDNR approval is expected within the next month and will be out for bids for Spring letting.
Regardless of what may or may not transpire in 30 years, what we do know is that the current recession has trimmed revenues even as it has driven many workers to retire “early” at 62 rather than wait for their full benefit at 66.
Regardless, our vehicles in the future are necessarily going to have to be able to accept a wide variety of fuel sources (or possibly a common energy carrier such as electricity, except that the current electric car infrastructure is a complete boondoggle).
Reggae artist Burning Spear, who chose his music name in honor of Kenyan freedom fighter and first president Jomo Kenyatta, presents his latest album in a decades-long career promoting peace, unity, and love.
Reid voted against efforts to reauthorize the Clinton “assault weapons” ban and early last year, flatly stated he would oppose any effort to reinstate an “assault weapons” ban if the Senate were to vote on it in the future.
Remarkably, a baby will literally develop from being almost immobile at birth, into a talking, walking toddler within 18 months!
Remember Rafa was a Real Madrid coach earlier, and I think it`s a dream of his to manage them in the future.
Remember our reunion in two years, and let's invite someone else that wasn't there.
Remember to Bookmark this page so that you can visit it again in the future.
Remember to balance your bass with treble, because someday, you might want to listen to something other than Too short.
Remember you can lose credit for a course if you miss more than 10 days in a semester course and 20 days in a year- long course.
Remember, the goal of the scoring model is usually to predict whether you might pay 90 days late or later on any credit obligation in the future.
Remind me to tell them that I can help them move off Ning when the time comes for Ning to fold.
Remind yourself that you can feel this way again, in the future.
Remote schools can have 30% to 90% turnover in one year; some have 100%, sometimes in one term.
Rent-to-own schemes will also give you a regular monthly income but the tenant will take care of any future home maintenance because he/she will be paying off the home in the future.
Reports on these failure rate statistics vary widely and can range as high as 97% failure in 12 months.
Representatives from SolarCity stated that the stations will be retrofitted with new universal charging connectors in several months.
Research that got underway today at Salinas Valley Memorial Healthcare System could help that become a reality someday.
Researchers evaluating the effect of TENS on patients following a laminectomy noted that TENS was most effective for managing pain in the drug-inexperienced patients—described in the study as patients who had had no more than 2 weeks' narcotic medication in the 6 months prior to surgery.
Researchers have found that significant weight loss after bariatric surgery can significantly improve the lipoprotein profiles of women within a year.
Reservations can be made up to one year ahead of time.
Rest assured, you are not asking for a job, only the opportunity to learn more about a company or job you may wish to pursue someday.
Results of the analyses indicate that most young adults have high expectations for marrying someday, though fewer wish to be married currently.
Reuters:ÂÂ Japan intervened to cap the yen for the first time in six years.
Revel together with many of the world's very best brewers at the 14th annual International Berlin Beer Festival that this year comes together along the Karl-Marx-Allee, situated to the south-west of the German capital.
Revelation is a once in 4 years Technical festival of the department of Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering, Pondicherry Engineering College.
Rice fortified with iron and Vitamin-A will be ready for use in two years time, Dr Mangla Rai, secretary of India’s Department of Agriculture Research and Education in the Union Agriculture Ministry, said, at the 'From Green Revolution to Gene Revolution' symposium in Hyderabad.
Richard Mansell, chief information officer at digital distributor MyVideoRights, agrees planning how content filters out will be vital in the years ahead, but says the key is also about being selective.
Richmond at Derby, where in one year he fitted himself to attend the regular course of medical lectures.
Rigel, MD, FAAD, clinical professor of dermatology at New York University Medical Center in New York, explains why he believes there is a legitimate increase in the number of people diagnosed with melanoma and why he believes that number may increase in the future.
Right now our plan is to continue to lose weight, monitor my o2 levels, email the results to her and in two months we will either work on changing to CPAP or do an official sleep study with the dental appliance.
Rob will be posting more on Alex O’Loughlin’s new TV show in the future, so keep an eye out for his blog updates  .
Robinho will be crying again in 6 months when Italian defenders realise how selfish and weak he is.
Rolling-in your costs is particularly appropriate if you will sell your home or refinance again in a few years because having a higher loan balance will likely matter less than being able to enjoy the immediate benefit of lower monthly payments.
Rose’s fame and website have resulted in quirky responses, from “Julie and Julia”-style marathon feats (baking every recipe in one of her books in one year) to directing her to a like-minded baker-technician who has become her long-distance assistant.
Routh admits that doing three degrees in five years required a lot of “parallel processing.
Rumorville: Gossip has it that a few more of the show's "lessor" characters may be departing in the next few months.
Russia and the United States could sign a new strategic arms reduction treaty in a month's time, a Russian diplomat said on Friday.
Russia will commission within the next three months a radar with the capacity to monitor rocket launches from the Middle East, including Iran, Interfax news agency said on Thursday.
Russia, China, Saudi Arabia, the Philippines and no doubt to be joined by others in the future, are buyers of gold.
Ryan: I play two characters and the majority of it takes place in a sort of alternate reality, but the whole movie isn’t set in the future.
S'ok, guy -- I'm still figuring out how this place works, and I think even Debra is (although she's always light-years ahead of me).
SAMUELSON: Parkinsonís is going to be treated effectively, cured, whatever you want to call it, probablyóI mean, probably easily within 20 years.
SDXC SUPPORT: Only own SDHC cards up until now, but it’s great to know that this supports the next generation of flash storage, which means you’ll in the future be able to hold many more pictures than currently available.
SECTION II : The Son of God, the second person in the Trinity, being very and eternal God, of one substance, and equal with the Father, did, when the fullness of time was come, take upon him man's nature with all the essential properties and common infirmities thereof, yet without sin, being conceived by the power of the Holy Spirit in the womb of the Virgin Mary, of her substance.
SEO has made a difference in the past and will be doing the same in the future, break the ice before it gets too late.
SH: Do you believe in the future of print?
SHAKIR: Within a few years.
SINGAPORE (Reuters) - Japan intervened in foreign exchange markets for the first time in six years on Wednesday to stem economic damage from the surging yen, pushing its currency sharply lower and lif.
SOCRATES: And the same science has to do with the same things in the future or at any time?
ST AUGUSTINE REPORTS 70 MIRACLES WROUGHT BY THEM IN HIS DIOCESIS WITHIN TWO YEARS, THREE WERE RESURRECTIONS FROM THE DEAD.
SYDNEY is preparing for its biggest non-grand final crowd in 102 years - but CityRail is threatening the travel plans of thousands of Dragons supporters.
SYLVIA: What kidding interval do you stick to, do you try to get three kid crops in two years?
Sadly, this was the first day in the 28 years of the lake's existence on which whitecaps were observed!
Safety advocates at the hearing supported use of speed governors, electronic logging of driven hours, the use of safety technologies and bringing liability insurance requirements up to date (they have not been increased in 30 years).
Safety features like airbags, crash sensors and crumple zones are all far in the future on Indian roads.
Sale or not, SAs love building relationships with customers, especially the ones that they think will give them more business in the future, so play along and drop hints that you may bring your cousin’s Indonesian in-laws down for a shopping spree in the next few months.
Sales abroad began to slow and the first merchandise trade deficit in 14 years occurred.
Salvation, eternal life await us in the future.
Same as Scott’s, 10 mil in 10 years.
Samuel Stearns, of Bedford, who was one of the few Orthodox members of the council, inquired if he might ask the candidate this question: "Do you believe that the punishment of the wicked in the future world will continue as long as the happiness of the righteous ?
Sandysaid  “We should hopefully have a release candidate ready in a month or two”.
Save projects that interest you for quicker access in the future and view them whenever you like .
Save the bible quotes for yourself Hanifa for I am sure you will need them someday more than I will.
Sayles’ purposeful aesthetic amateurishness at times comes close to wax-paper stylization, the hoops-shooting sequence reveals a novelist’s first discovery of montage.
Scarring from eyelid surgery is usually minimal after three weeks and undetectable in six months.
Scentsy has continued to have 300% growth consistently year over year and plans to expand worldwide in the future.
Scottish bakery companies McGhee's and Pars Foods expect to sell half a million of their new reduced-fat Scotch pies in the next year, after launching the product at the Scottish Cup Final at Hampden Park stadium.
Scrimp on salary to buy an apartment and someday start a micro-clan of one?
Secondly, never invest in a timing strategy if you need access to your money during the short-term (within six months).
See topics we will write about in the future.
See you all in the next year for more Learn Japanese madness.
Seeing how their players respond to a situation is very telling on how MMO’s and virtual worlds might be paid for in the future.
Seems simple enough; but where do you find the fabric and expertise when that time comes?
Sega's market share had now fallen from 65% to 35% within one year.
Seger released his first studio album in five years in 1991.
Senate Bill 191, the most controversial piece of legislation this year – arguably the most controversial legislation in a decade – gained final legislative approval on Wednesday afternoon.
Senate unveiled a bill aimed at slashing greenhouse gas emissions in the next four decades.
Senator Patricia McGee said, “This study can lead to sustainable economic activity in the future, and we encourage public-private partnerships for each proposed project.
Sending her Do-It-Yourself impeachments  legitimizes her when she joins the impeachment movement in the future.
Sep 02, 2008 - In a four year study involving 11,000 patients in 33 countries, all with coronary disease, cardiologists have found that a faster than normal heartbeat significantly increases the risk of dying from a heart attack, heart failure, admission to hospita read more.
September 02, 2002 Minnesota Abortions Increase to Highest Level in Ten Years September 2, 2002 (?
Sergey Brin and Steve Horowitz discuss the availability of the SDK, that it will be open source in the future, and demo applications on the Android platform.
Servers are good and do handle heavy traffic well, but once in a month may go down for a little while.
Set in the One Year War of the Universal Century story arc, the game offers the player two single-player campaigns where they assume the role of a soldier from either the Earth Federation or the Principality of Zeon.
Seven of the 10 housing markets with the highest risk of price declines in the next two years are in Florida, according to an analysis  by PMI Mortgage Insurance Co.
Seventy percent of our readers have the intention of buying IT and digital products within a year.
Several of our CVTs have acquired the certification and others plan to take it in the future.
Several studies indicate that most blogs are abandoned soon after creation (with 60% to 80% abandoned within one month, depending on whose figures you choose to believe) and that few are regularly updated.
Several trips are planned in upcoming months.
Shailesh Haribhakti on his reelection as Chairman of the Board said “I am deeply honored by the trust reposed to me by the Board and Members and in the next two years it would be our endeavor to establish the Financial Planning as an established profession as per the accepted global best practices”.
Shama is the president of The Marketing Zen Group  and from the get go I was extremely enthralled by her story and was immediately drawn to her love of Social Media and the power of Social Media in the future of business on a whole.
Shamrock will help ensure such votes will be higher in the future.
Share a story or some feelings with your spouse and your friends and family about a particularly inspiring time, loving time, difficult time, or a moment of levity in the 50 years of marriage that you think is appropriate.
Share traders were also worried by an unexpectedly sharp fall in the University of Michigan consumer confidence index, a small but influential barometer, which fell for the first time in three months.
SharePoint is currently in its third incarnation (SharePoint 2007) and within 9 months Microsoft will be deploying the fourth version, "SharePoint 2010.
Shariputra, if there are people who have already made the vow, who now make the vow, or who will make the vow, I wish to be born in Amitabha's country, these people, whether born in the past, now being born there, or to be born there in the future, will all attain non-retreat from anuttarasamyaksambodhi.
She began using character-based unit studies by KONOS and within a year was representing the company throughout the southeast, a role she enjoyed for 12 years.
She continued to tell her story, completing her final year of prelaw and then doing the normally four years of law school in six years by going part time.
She does some writing now, and expects to write more in the future.
She found the experience pleasant and plans to continue getting Botox in the future.
She gave me some precise information on what Neiman Marcus will be in the future, what direction they want to take in the future, the new strategy, etc.
She graduates high school in two years, and afterward, her parents hope to move back to New Orleans, the last phase of their Katrina recovery journey.
She had come to earth to choose certain people to assist in the future.
She had suffered four bouts of pneumonia in five years and, as a retired nurse, she knew the antibiotics weren’t the long-term solution.
She has been the Abbey’s patron Saint for three centuries, but she hasn’t produced a paying miracle or a pilgrim in 13 years, ever since Brother Charles (Richard Howe) became the Abbot.
She has learned a lot about life in 19 years and can handle any situation her bad behavior gets her into!
She has not found work in five years.
She has since gone on to star in several more films, including Sex and the City: The Movie and The Secret Life of Bees, and plans on signing more in the future.
She hopes to make erotica her main focus in the upcoming years.
She initially gave me PEPPERMINT and BIRCH to try, and within a month, my pain was drastically reduced and migraines were gone.
She is married with three grown children, and hopes to spend more time traveling in the future.
She is seeking her first domestic title in two years after winning three times in 2000 with Elaine Youngs in Brazil, Portugal and China.
She is very short time comes in Bangladeshi media and get lot of fan in Bangladesh.
She lectures on nanotechnology to a wide variety of audiences, focusing on making this complex field understandable, and on clarifying the difference between near-term commercial advances and the "Next Industrial Revolution" arriving in the next few decades.
She lives with her Master, Jack, who she serves in an eight year M/s relationship.
She may still need surgery in the future, but for now she is doing well.
She mentioned in a 'give away comment', her mother had come to see her then for the first time in 2 years.
She plans weeks, months, and years ahead just like anyone half her age.
She reminded me of my obligations to the courts as well as my clients, and she told me that she didn't think she could be fair to my clients in the future because of what had transpired between me and her.
She reminds us of the perseverance of Mother Teresa of Calcutta and her “dark night of the soul” alongside Nelson Mandela’s perseverance in 27 years of imprisonment.
She said she made herself a promise that day to “someday succeed to vindicate my parents’ social and economic position.
She said she needed to get a feel for my cancer and to come back and see her again in three months.
She sees Kei as her rival and works very hard to someday top him.
She studied drama at Patrick Henry High School and graduated in three years.
She walks by herself They said that what she didn’t have back within a year, she would never get back.
She was able to make her down payment, and know that she would be getting a tax credit back in several months, that would replenish the funds she used for her down payment.
She will also help you register for classes and you'll meet some of the nurses who will care for you and your new family when that special time comes!
She would see to it that they never shared a shift out of the slots during the seven decades ahead.
She writes poetry and short stories, and is considering writing a novel in the future, A Class Of A Sin.
She's never been handled before and I have high hopes of being able to get close to her someday without getting covered in spit.
She's saying that I might give her a heart attack someday and that she might have to go to a mental hospital because of all the problems I give her.
She’s a very pretty girl and I wish her much luck in the future.
Shortly once that meeting, Susse Freres published a brochure, The History and Description of the Technique of Daguerreotypy, which went into twenty six editions in five months.
Should be a fun year watching the fallout, fireworks, claims and boasts in the next few months.
Should it return to business in the future, it will have to be re-reviewed before we will recommend it again.
Should there come a time in the future where we test a golf product similar to the ProPlay Glove & Grip Fitting System we would at that time cease our direct endorsement of it.
Should we in the future get married, I will inform you of this occasion.
Should we not be able to prove that Arafat will gain nothing by the use of violence we may be in for far worse in the future.
Should you have any ideas on how we might improve this website or to better serve you in the future, please contact us.
Should you in the future wish to take advantage of a refinancing offer to reduce your mortgage costs, it helps to have as much equity available as possible in order to secure the best deal.
Significant change and deleting of the large amounts of the rainforests, especially those located in the Amazon area, has brought real growth of the CO2 levels in the next few years.
Similarly poor farmers are more effective stewards of land that they are assured of being able to use in the future.
Similarly, we electively stopped CAPD in 5 asymptomatic patients hoping that they might be saved from sclerosing peritonitis, yet most of them still developed intestinal obstruction within a few months.
Simon Elliott, Managing Director for Chrysler Group in the UK, said: "These two new prototypes demonstrate some of the technology which we may be seeing in our civilian vehicles in the future.
Simply stated, this means that an analyst capitalizes an anticipated income stream or cash flow in the future.
Since 1989, with the fall of the Berlin Wall, in only 15 years many countries are rapidly joining this new civilization.
Since Davis is proficient in both marketing and design, he has not had to make use of Agency Access' deep design pool or direct mailings; however, these are services he says may be useful in the future.
Since Windows applications are event-driven and everything in Visual Basic 2008 is treated as a programmable object, you'll also find out about event-driven and object-oriented programming, concepts important not just in Visual Basic, but also in other programming languages you may want to learn in the future.
Since more and more people are expressing interest in this option, it is probably going to be a very accepted way to earn a degree in the future.
Since she was under contract she couldn't do anything but as soon as the contract ended James contacted her again and within three months they had a show.
Since that time no professional golfer has won more than six consecutive events or more than 13 championships in one year.
Since the Jewish community in Russia is rapidly ageing, it it feared that it will cease to exist as a nationale entity within 25 years.
Since the committee began regularly meeting again a year ago, Kost has suggested comprehensive edits to the minutes for at least four meetings: June 1, 2009, Aug.
Since this is also my first game round (and I started a few days late) I found a lot of nice things to put my attention to when starting a new round in the future!
Since this will be the last issue of the decade, i had a talk with MHEDA Executive Director Liz Richards about how far the association came this year and how far it can go in the future.
Since we opened up our business in last March, we did one (investment) in nine months.
Singapore - Employers in Singapore are among the most optimistic worldwide, particularly those in the services sector who have indicated that they will hire more staff in the next three months.
Sipke Beyl, a principal of Habitat Real Estate in Umhlanga and fellow NRN member, says new residential developments in the vicinity of Gateway were selling out within a month of launching, owing to their location and investment value.
Slated for completion in 2007, the initial two-phased expansion will create in excess of 150 new jobs, which is part of an overall corporate plan to add up to 300 new positions in the next year.
Small Business of Natural & Man-Made Disasters Bob Lorsch's marketing and public relations company had its offices on the top floor 50 percent will be out of business within five years.
Smash is also a star player that WILL be going somewhere someday.
Snack food maker Frito Lay says it plans on adding 176 electric trucks to its delivery fleet  within the next year and a half.
So I am excited about saving close to $40 in a year!
So I thought I would put together a simple flowchart to help us evaluate such situations in the future when such a need arises again.
So I will change that in the future.
So I would happily pronounce that TES has been proven false if, sometime in the future, someone actually builds a robot that (a) lives and dies as humans do; (b) exhibits all the elements of consciousness; and (c) is not reincarnated from a pre-existing human.
So I'm looking to have another one made in the next two months.
So Lynch himself lends credence to a peak within two decades.
So My boy Colin Jacob and I got together for a new project, we are both directing the new “IT BOYS” video for the new EP that will be hitting the streets in a few month’s.
So a group of us —Kevin Drew, guitarist Andrew Whiteman, drummer Justin Paroff, Brendan, and I —decided to book a show in Toronto two months in advance and make our get-through-the-winter project writing songs for the gig.
So all told, in the next four years the deficit will be cut in half.
So although it is tragic that your mates have lost their homes they will still be around to go fishing with you in the future.
So as sanguine as the CERA folks are about peak oil remaining far out in the future I wouldn't go out and buy a new Hummer.
So far as infrastructure is concerned, I must point out that a very unique building is coming up in the next 12 months.
So from that perspective,this, meaning the investment level we see right now in Q2 of 2009, may be what it is going to be like in the future.
So here is my new, future strategy for building backlinks to articles, that you can hopefully benefit from: I will only point backlinks that I cannot control (edit or delete) to content that I can control in the future.
So if FNM goes up 20% in a year, the no lose strategy only gains (20% – 15%) 5%.
So if JNJ goes up 20% in a year, the no lose strategy only gains (20% – 15%) 5%.
So if we want to get something up and running within the next 12 months (and there are time pressures.
So if you get $2500 Guardian with $7500 future insurability and $1000 of Standard with $4000 future insurability you have locked in a total of $15,000 per mo of disability that you can get in the future without concern for any change in health.
So if you purchase something you can't afford to pay back, your payments might be late or missed and that could negatively affect your credit score and ultimately impact your ability to access credit again in the future.
So if you use Jim as an example and do the things that he did to improve - I believe you can make great strides with your golf in the next year.
So if you were the first affiliate to get a customer to buy a product from them you will receive commissions on every product they buy in the future from them no matter how they ended up being referred back to the site.
So in 20 years’ time, I can quite easily see her being a brilliant lawyer or civil servant — in a good way, of course — and perhaps she sees it too.
So in a month, when I have the level tested again, it will be after the radioactive iodine has had a chance to work so the thyroglobulin level should be even lower.
So it is not hard to imagine a similar number being commissioned in a decade after about 2015.
So it looks like we need an alternative to Dark Matter, which is great because we can expect some new fascinating results from this field of research in the next years.
So it was in the past and so it will be in the future until either our people's will is realized or we become martyrs.
So it will not cause checksum conflicts when installing official Amazon updates in the future.
So it’ll pay for itself in about 83 years.
So it’s already December which means the end of the year is coming and 2008 will be knocking on your doorstep before you know it.
So it’s with conviction that we believe nuclear power has a part to play in the future of energy as one element in a diverse generation mix.
So let us know that a time will come when we will spend a great length of time under the dirt, unable to perform any action and unable to remember Allaah 'azza wa jall.
So many times we get caught up in looking towards what we are waiting for and then when life happens and hard times come we just cant understand why God is letting all this happen.
So much have I forgotten in ten years, So much in ten brief years; I have forgot What time the purple apples come to juice And what month brings the shy forget-me-not; Forgotten is the special, startling season Of some beloved tree's fl.
So my walk around the lake this morning was my last walk around the lake for a very, very long time, maybe forever, so now at last I’m free to tell you about it… so someday, if you find yourself in this part of the world (especially you, my beloved Mistress Yoko, or you, my dear sisters across the sea), you can take a walk around the lake yourself, and think of me and all the times I took that same walk.
So our answer to the “money and happiness” question may be based more on what we think money will do for us at some point in the future rather than how money actually affects us today.
So remind me of that when the time comes.
So the 75% will buy if it pays for itself in 1 year - with gas cost at $2000/yr at 3$/gal that means gas has to go up 3x or 4x before this kind of expectation can be met.
So the net increase in SACS money to be spent would be $225,000 and this would result in the 8 year payback, but only of the $225,000!
So there's 12 of us now, possibly more in the future.
So this is very good news for silver which is likely to outpace gold substantially in the next few years.
So this is what I have been missing at the other cinemas over the years, I must have seen Star Trek the motion picture in two different screens at the (ABC Bournemouth screen 1 1979) screen 1 again I think around early 1980’s for double bill with Star Trek II and again several years later in screen 2 and the sound was never that great it was underwhelming.
So today I had the dealer I went to contact the Michelin rep to start the claim, they agreed to pay 70% of the tire cost for the two tires that were out of spec, so it cost me $170+/- to get the two tires replaced after one year, and it looks like I will be doing two more at full price in 6 months unless Michelin comes to their senses.
So we need to understand that the global systems on which we've come to depend are already failing, and they will fail dramatically in the future.
So we were addressing the premium difference in a 12 year old policy against a UC current policy.
So what we do this year ahead…until the next BBAW…is we keep reading.
So what’s in the future for these too?
So when I here about the guy who tore his ACL four times in six years, I say heis the unluckiest man in college football…and his name is Colby Erskin a WR at USF  .
So when bad times come along (and they will), you’ll be able to manage them with ease.
So when the appointed time comes and the hour is close at hand for the standing of mankind in front of the Lord of the Worlds {the Trumpet will be blown with a single blowing and the Earth and the Mountains shall be removed from their places and crushed with a single crushing}2.
So when the time comes she will have to marry the right guy for here.
So whether you are already laid off or just think you might be, now is the time to think about how you will make yourself memorable to those you meet, what kind of risk you are willing to take to get a great job, and how you can stay connected to those who have the potential to help you in the future.
So who is going to form the identity of the church in the future?
So why buy a another stupid 300-400 dollar device that will most likely be obsolete in 5 years?
So yes we will take a hit on our standard of living(depending on the rate of change I suppose), but think how much worse it will be in 100 years when the fossil fuels run out, you plan is just delaying the inevitable and making it worse in the process.
So, 75% would pay more if they got their money back in 1 year.
So, for those who are interested in the future purchase of the "The Cinch" hanging plant holder, the following details are important.
So, friends, as we launch into this New Year ahead and heed the charge to “Go it again in 2010”, let’s remember and reflect on those times when we, and many others before us, laid down our flesh for the sake of Christ’s kingdom and for His praise and honor, and the great rewards it yielded for His glory.
So, in the future, please consider first thoroughly analyzing figures before you make snarky comments about a figure severely underestimating something they wasn’t even in the scope of the original research.
So, my encouragement to all of you is sometime in the next 12 months, get out and about - as the Canadians say - and go visit a foreign shore.
So, to all intents and purposes it will cost you a minimum of $49 to employ a single worker, assuming you can do so within a month.
So, we need to accept a mission-one equivalent to the Manhattan Project that developed the A-bomb or President Kennedy's effort to get us to the moon--aimed at a simple goal: no Middle Eastern oil imports in 10 years.
So, while there is the outside chance that someday a Super Stock ready Challenger could be offered, the public should not get their hopes too high for the car to be as it appeared at SEMA 2006, unless it is going to be non-street driven.
So, with the flies mating and reproducing every two weeks, many generations of flies can be studied in a year, allowing researchers to do genetic studies quickly.
Social cohesion leads to team members’ enjoying to work with each other and being positive about coming back to work with their original team on a different task in the future (Chang and Bordia 2001 (#9) ).
Social cohesion was measured with four items, three of which were reproduced from Karau and Hart (1998 (#18) , 188), for example asking team members how willing they would be to work with their fellow team members again in the future.
Social media was identified as the channel which has had the most influence on the customer experience in the last twelve months (27%) and, is the channel which businesses expect to have the greatest effect on the customer experience in the next year (48%).
Social networking site Facebook says it has suffered the worst shutdown in four years.
Solar Energy Showing Promising Signs After Years of Disappointment After years of over promising and under delivering, the solar Industry is finally starting to show some interesting developments which have the potential to make solar power as cheap as fossil fuel on a cost-per-watt basis within five years.
Solitude is not something you must hope for in the future.
Some adventure before her next race in three months time!
Some analysts predict that the remaining forest cover may disappear in a few years, leading to erosion of the remaining fertile soils and disappearance of the water supply.
Some clients want to help ensure lessons are learned from their misfortune and contribute to avoiding similar mishaps in the future.
Some cowboys might say otherwise, but there's a larger point: In the future, do we really want to return to traveling Old West style?
Some day in the future, the three of us will share the uplift of this indelible moment.
Some experts believe supplies from the oil-rich Middle East may begin to decline sometime in the next decade.
Some have even qualified for 12 months in a year.
Some historic vessels that fell victim to the sea or cannon fire centuries ago could disappear within five years, according to a leading British marine archaeologist, Sean Kingsley, who is an adviser on the most extensive archaeological deep-sea survey of the Channel ever undertaken.
Some in the future will remember their past lives on earth, in order that they can gain access to the memories so that they will discover that they have been before and will live again.
Some insiders say ¡°the water and power consumption of star-class hotels and A-class scenic spots will be reduced by 20% within five year¡±.
Some may grow only a few centimetres in 200 years, while other will grow 5 to 10 centimetres in one year.
Some of the areas get less than 10 inches of rain in a year and some years have no rain at all.
Some of the infrastructure Google has in place is still in its infancy, but it certainly makes you wonder what we might be doing in a few years.
Some of the most emailed pictures of the weekend (per Yahoo News) were those of a flooded, sopping Venice (the worst in 22 years).
Some of you I had met while you were doings stories on me, and I am sure that our paths will cross again on other issues in the future.
Some parts of his work did not require the actual existence of the human nature; he could draw nigh to God, as Jehovah’s fellow, without it; he could treat with God about terms of peace, and promise to fulfil them, and covenant with God without it: it no more required the actual existence of his human nature, to covenant with his Father, about the reconciliation and redemption of man, than it required that the Father should assume such a nature to covenant with his Son about the same: there were other parts of Christ’s work as Mediator, which required its actual existence; as obedience to the law, and suffering death, the penalty of it; but then, and not before, was it necessary for him to assume it, when the fulness of time was come agreed on, to obey and suffer.
Some people looking to buy a second home for either their own leisure or to possibly resell in the future will look into mortgaging that home as well.
Some people, however, have a flu-like illness within a month or two after exposure to the virus.
Some refer to market value as the price estate agents could realistically expect to accomplish within three months of marketing the property.
Some rumors still say the Attics may yet return again someday!
Some say that all the WR talent will someday emerge in Atlanta and hurt Crumpler’s numbers.
Some very important allies were met who will be valuable friends in the future.
Someday I hope to be helping a lot more with cancer research.
Someday I hope to work for S.
Someday I may ask about the stories, let me check out the area first.
Someday I should seriously count the number of books on my shelves thanks to her.
Someday I suppose it could happen.
Someday I want it to fund my retirement as well, so I can’t afford to have non-revenue PSAs showing up on my site.
Someday I want to be rich.
Someday I will find out what it is about.
Someday I will make these cookies.
Someday I will paddle the rest of the Charles River.
Someday I will take better.
Someday I would like to paint a peasant scene from Jean Millet's collection.
Someday I'll get it all together.
Someday I'm gonna be free, Lord!
Someday I’ll (someday I\'ll) walk away and say, “You fucking disappoint me!
Someday I’ll have to answer to a higher power for the choices I’ve made in my life.
Someday I’m going to give you one just like it, and then you can see for yourself all the pretty things in the store windows I have been trying to tell you about.
Someday Jesus shall come again, if I dont see you sooner, I'll sure see you then.
Someday Soon (showitem.
Someday all these trees'll be gone.
Someday in your design career you may have to come up with a brilliant layout for a client who wants a website for his string of supermarkets.
Someday is a disease that you will take to the grave with you – so vote for me today!
Someday it may seem unbelievable that Henri Cartier-Bresson, Richard Avedon and Helmut Newton coincided historically: three major photographers, each highly influential, Christian Louboutin  each with a style as distinct as a fingerprint.
Someday it’ll be like Shinagawa, with its airport-like atmosphere and overlapping concrete bridges over little, rain-slicked roads which lead mystically to Chinese marketplaces .
Someday maybe you could be signing a chit to pay me after a 3hr jaunt around the course!
Someday my hope is to meet you in person.
Someday some brand will be the Coca-Cola or Nokia or Nike of personal computers with a market share of 40% or so.
Someday soon Bertrand Piccard is going to throw the switches on his Solar Impulse Foundation aircraft, tug back on the stick and pull it into the air.
Someday soon I will be able to garden ,take pix and join you all again.
Someday soon conservative boneheads may make National Public Radio  a thing of the past, but for now we have our NPR and our Terry Gross  , the journalist/whiz interviewer behind Fresh Air  .
Someday soon they will chase away the weeds and become the most beautiful flowers in my garden.
Someday soon, my own boys will be the ones getting married.
Someday soon, there will be a test that can be performed to tell who is at risk for decay.
Someday starts today.
Someday the African at home and abroad will learn to solve his/her problems.
Someday the seed we plant may germinate and these people who we thought would never bear fruit began to open up to the Spirits leading.
Someday they might get back together.
Someday they will get exactly what they deserve.
Someday we may be adding Song Lyrics!
Someday we may live in a label free utopia – we are not there yet.
Someday we'll have more experience with different sizes - and we'll have more to say about it.
Someday you might get the benefit of those longer term projects—or they might sit in my Documents file forever and never find a publisher.
Someday you will be right.
Someday you will be with her again, and I hope that thought carries you through.
Someday you'll find yourself boxing the worst opponent of all.
Someday your kid will thank you for it.
Someday!
Someday, France hopes to simplify his hectic days by doing nothing but writing for the rest of his life.
Someday, I hope.
Someday, a blind man will come forward thinking, hoping.
Someday, he would come and get them back.
Someday, if They do show up on your land, there may only be a couple of Them at first.
Someday, maybe we'll have money.
Someday, somewhere death awaits me.
Someday, sooner or later, he’s going to say, ‘Boy, Obama had a good idea.
Someday, the experts say, we all may support her.
Someday, the whole nation may look forward to the occasion, once every four years, with a sort of delicious, nervous anticipation -- awaiting the one day when two eminent politicians will say not what is politically wise, but what is simply wise.
Someday, when Voyager finally returns this way after making the great circle of the universe, it'll most likely have my grandmother's photo plastered on one of its solar panels.
Someday, when he is a 70 year old man, he might really regret what he has done.
Someday, you will be in the right place at the right time.
Someday2.
Somehow I had music lessons: Piano, drums, four-string guitar, and bass guitar - all within a year or so from an old guy who had a music studio in Glendale, California.
Somehow he managed to come up with another $5,000 within three months.
Somehow, someday I will get to play this game, and if I like it I will get a PS3 when I am good and ready.
Somehow, someday, somewhere.
Someone evidently viewed this as akin to an investment, since enough people have a fixation on accruing Matchbox Cars to make them “collector’s items” and therefore, one speculates (and we do mean speculates) that someday they’ll have some outrageous value.
Someone lost 100LBs in 5 months?
Someone's father said that someday we'll be paying for TV and when that happens it won't be long before we're paying for water.
Sometime in the future I'll throw you a 20 for all of your help.
Sometime in the future, I hope you’ll consider writing your memoirs of your six Lost years.
Sometime within the next two years, I think I will be able to dust off my old columns on deflation, add a few updates and use them again.
Sometimes I come across a site and ignore it, but after some time, I see the same site over and over again, then I might read a few paragraphs.
Sometimes coming up with a product to sell online is a problem for many people.
Sometimes those products that fall into the area of Unless you want to miss out on the most exciting information about Short Term Memory in a Decade!
Sonja has been with Atlanta Dog Trainer for some time and we are proud to have her manage our new project and look for many wonderful years ahead for this growing partnership.
Sony's PlayStation 3 has outsold Nintendo's Wii console in Japan for the first time in 16 months.
Soon being like possibly in a year.
Soon there will be another disaster somewhere else and we will forget the starving children and we won't stop to think much about the causes of the disaster and what ought to be done in the future.
Sorry to hear about that, Andy - Hopefully another one will appear at the right time in the future.
Sounds like Laurel has a lot going on in the next few months.
Sounds like something I'm definitely interested in, I'll have to give it a try on my backup torker when the time comes to swap.
Sounds like within a few years of moving in, half the residents on the eastern side of the building will have no sun, and no view other than "hip" 20-somethings enjoying our city.
Sources close to the deal believe that the potential exists for at least a 5% penetration of the 20 million student population within 12 months effectively beginning in the second quarter.
Soviet Union suffers worst wheat harvest in 55 years… Labor and food riots in Poland.
Speaking about marriage, the former Miss Universe said that it will happen when the time comes and she is confident of having a perfect marriage.
Speaking in Tuesday’s DairyLine, Gould pointed to the latest American cheese stock numbers, which increased in November for the first time in five years, and said Monday’s downward price movement was not a surprise.
Speaking of good habits, always take advantage of the opportunity to perform a safety inspection whenever you have a car on the lift, with an eye toward any service that is due now or will be necessary in the future.
Speaking of success, our success rate is 97% based on the new or improved product meeting its financial targets within 3 years of introduction.
Speaking to the BBC, Peter Moore - president of EA Sports - said that while the Chinese and Western markets were still very different, he expected to see some significant changes in the way Westerners buy games in the future.
Special notice goes to John Middleton and Maggie Chestovich, neither of whom I have ever seen perform before, but you can bet I'll be looking for their names in the future!
Species like cedar for example last for decades in direct contact with the ground while spruce would be rotten in under 5 years.
Spending player money today module be worth it in the future.
Spurred by petitions from the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources and others, the federal agency has opened a public comment period and is expected to issue a recommendation in six months.
Squirrels can often be on the move during the late morning and again in the period from early afternoon until dusk while they create a hoard for the bleaker winter months ahead.
Staff engagement, and the bigger issue of attracting and retaining the right people, is only going to become more important in the years ahead.
Starbucks has added a line of tea, Tazo teas, to their menus, and will be adding beer to their menus in the future.
Start building your list today, it will pay off in the long run as you will undoubtably have other business opportunites to offer in the future.
Starting on the Southside, while I wasn't suprised Javier Jazquez was treated like a mail-order bride yesterday (since Javy was the 1st pitcher in 25 years to open a playoff series with 16 losses and had pitched like shiznit recently), the fact the Sox continue to discuss how a 32 year-old needs to mature on the mound and stop losing concentration is like being suprised Heather Locklear has mental issues after spending her entire hot-azz life dating degenerate rockers.
State Treasurer Hasn’t Paid Taxes In 10 Years (forum_posts.
State of California employees will soon be relocating into “Office Building 9,” the second of two 310,000 square foot twin towers owned by the state Department of General Services in Sacramento that have been involved in a four year renovation make-over.
Stay tuned to A Mom’s Impression in the next month to read about my experiences with Crest Pro-Health Complete Rinse!
Stem cells at present do hold out the hope of exciting medical advances in the future for a host of conditions and diseases, but it's early days for clinical trial therapy testing, and there are no peer reviewed tests to prove the efficacy of the therapies.
Stephen and I really enjoyed the quad biking experience, and will certainly return for more in the future.
Still quite rare and unusual, and now being successfully bred and shown in Japan and France, someday they may be found all over the world.
Still the Yotes will finish no higher then 12th this year coming up.
Still, China’s manufacturing expanded at the fastest pace in four months in September, adding to signs that economic growth is stabilizing.
Still, I will tell you that his memorabilia in the future will be worth more than any president in my lifetime.
Still, even Bernanke predicted this week that the unemployment rate would rise in the months ahead.
Still, even the most ardent proponents of technology say there’s no guarantee that advances will come fast enough and be applied quickly enough to head off the possibility of oil shortages in the future.
Still, it doesn’t look good enough to see in a theater, so I’ll just rent this when it hits DVD in a few months.
Stockton received better treatment in the future, retaliation would be taken on British prisoners.
Strait's seasonal success in the New Millennium enabled Vickery to join Hank Williams, Harlan Howard, and Hank Cochran as the only country songwriter to write hits in five decades.
Strange how this demonstrates the massive difference in standard and instant search results, hopefully results will show stronger correlations in the future instead of simply providing Wikipedia as the most suitable option.
Strategic planning tools such as scenario-based exercises offer a great way to help public and private sector clients at all levels to think about and understand their role in the future operating environment.
Strike Four - Someday Someday (/m/misc_unsigned_bands/strike_four_-_someday_someday-lyrics.
Students of Bizar Financing already know that JM will never pay a dime out of his own pocket when the time comes later this year to exercise his right to purchase the balance of the company.
Students with a Bachelor in business administration, economics or management can obtain the MBA degree in one year (full-time); students with a non-economic academic Bachelor can do so in two years (full-time).
Studies show that well over 50% of employees that succumb to this arrangement leave the company within a year anyway.
Study: Many at state colleges fail to graduate within 6 years (default.
Subject to Section 175, the liquidator shall complete the liquidation within five years from the date of registration of the company dissolution.
Subject to planning permission, the club hopes to be able to move into the new building within a year.
Subject to the condition that such companies shall divest 26% of their equity in favour of Indian public in 5 years, if these companies are listed in other parts of the world.
Subsequent violations within 5 years result in penalties becoming progressively greater.
Success Strategies John Ellsworth reminds us that now is the time to provide a fiscal checklist for the upcoming year.
Successful Site in 12 Months with Google Alone (showthread-t_220.
Such children should not be relegated to life on the streets or in an orphanage simply because many—including myself—hope that someday there will be much better options for in-country care than now exist.
Such information could be both relevant and lucrative in the future of the yachting industry.
Such people need ongoing follow-up and the opportunity to receive test results in the future.
Summary Box: Japan intervenes to weaken yen SELLING YEN: The Japanese government intervened in the currency markets Wednesday for the first time in six years, selling yen to buy dollars to weaken th.
Summer is certainly a wonderful time for a new relationship, and we’re sure more stars will follow suit in the next few months!
Summertime is coming soon, so be sure to pencil in a few dates for The L Magazine’s   Summerscreen, at their new location — still within the McCarren Park limits — the cement area across the street from the Turkey’s Nest (the northwest corner of Bedford and N.
Sunday morning brought Conclave's closing session, where newly installed SMC Robertson presented his plans for the upcoming year.
Sung beautifully by Rafi (and as I said in an earlier Rafi vs KK discussion, this is one of those songs which KK would have floundered BIG TIME coming even half way of what Rafi did with it!
Suppose Scalia or Thomas takes ill in the next year -- or worse, the next few months -- and he has to resign from the Court.
Sure enough within 3 months she found a woman she was interested in and got into a relationship with her.
Sure, there’s a chance that the person you just lied about and screwed out of a promotion might save the company…but the far better odds are that nothing will be better or worse in six months for them being gone, and now you’ve got a raise and more influence.
Surprising results came out within 3 months.
Survival: Virtually no one dies of breast cancer within five years of treatment for DCIS.
Syd matters - Someday we will foresee obstacles (index.
TANZANIA generated over 36bn/- trade surplus within six months of operations of customs union within the East African regional bloc, the government has announced.
THE PLOT THUS FAR A few decades in the future, a mercenary named Toorop (Vin Diesel) accepts a contract from a Russian mobster, Gorsky, who instructs him to bring.
TNT's global presence and worldwide network promise a career that can extend far beyond Hong Kong, she adds, citing the example of a ground service agent who successfully requested relocation to Dubai and moved up to the position of operations manager there within five years.
TabID=4618) from government departments, local authorities, health and other relevant bodies, to contribute to a national doubling of cycle trips whilst halving the risks within ten years.
Taiwanese employers, especially in the manufacturing industry, are equally optimistic with nearly half surveyed anticipating more headcount in the next three months.
Take II: “He plays a premier position in a year where there are few left-handed hitting catchers with pop.
Take a look one, five and ten years ahead, taking today's factors as the way things are going and ask, what does the future hold?
Take action to help one another, to find new therapies, and to change the course for COPD in the future.
Take care and maybe someday we'll meet up.
Take control of your virtual life and see what you can achieve in ten years.
Taken along with the contribution from Shell to lasts week’s Oil Crunch  report in which they predict a production peak in easy oil within the next decade, this is further evidence of growing convergence of opinion on a coming supply crunch.
Takeshi Matsu - Kill The Bear Someday Part 1 (showthread.
Taking a hint from Steve Rubel of Micro Persuasion in The Future is Web Services, Not Web Sites  , we are entering a time where creating an API for embedding content within another site is becoming a standard way of sharing information.
Taking a linear approach -- "I'll write that down when the time comes to do that chapter" -- results in quite a lot of lost material.
Taller posts were used on one side so that we could hang tomato planters and possibly herb planters in the future.
Tallon, the architect of the Chicago Blackhawks Stanley Cup lineup, has already put his mark on the Panthers, and could very well produce Floridas first playoff team in a decade.
Tamoxifen may also be indicated to reduce the risk of developing invasive breast cancer in the future.
Tana Stellato, ASHP conference and convention division director, stated, “This was the first time we’ve been to Anaheim in 30 years, and it exceeded all of our expectations on every level from the sunny weather to the partnership in attendance marketing.
Target market is a group of customers with similar characteristics who may in the future to purchase the product.
Taurus is a fixed sign and energies expressed here sometimes come out looking like stubbornness.
Tax day has come and gone, but the President has vowed to fix our tax code in the future.
Tebow led Florida to a 13-1 record and its second national championship in three years.
Technology has made at the momentâ€™s online betting world sunlit years ahead of what it was ages ago.
Technology is featured in a monthly on-air column reported by New York Bureau Chief and technology reporter Scott Gurvey.
TeenHollywood: Do you have something coming up in the next few months?
Teens who smoke begin to show the damage within a few years.
Telecom operators expect that within two years over 90% of all online traffic will be audio and video: streams and downloads.
Television advertisements soliciting plaintiffs for medical malpractice lawsuits increased from about 10,150 ads in 2004 to more than 156,000 ads in 2008—nearly a 1,400 percent increase in four years, according to a new study being released Tuesday.
Tell me, what do you expect for Theosophy in the future?
Tell the reader why you chose that activity or organization, what you have learned, and how you hope to be active in this area in the future.
Temperatures reached 31C and the usual formal dress code in the Stewards’ enclosure was relaxed to enable men to take off their jackets for the first time in 33 years.
Ten years before the Eugenics Society was created, President Theodore Roosevelt wrote, it is obvious that if in the future racial qualities are to be improved, the improving must be wrought mainly by favoring the fecundity of the worthy types(Chase, p.
Testicular cancer has recently been reported in a 17 year-old AIS woman by Chen et al.
Texas mortgage interest rate are at the lowest point we have seen in several years making refinance options a great way to save hundreds per month or thousands over the life of your loan.
Thank you again for everything, and we look forward to continued work together in the future.
Thank you again for your help and maybe someday we will be fortunate enough to join you on a voyage somewhere.
Thank you for that wonderfully descriptive overview of Alaska and it once again makes me realize that I must someday soon experience this for myself either as a CD or as a guest.
Thank you for the great quality of your blog, each time i come here, i’m amazed.
Thank you for your time and quick responses, I look forward to working with each and every one of you in the future.
Thank you once again and I will contact you in the future when I have another special event that I need a cake for.
Thanks again, I would use your service in the future and certainly recommend you to others.
Thanks for a great tournament see you all in the future.
Thanks for this review, I might buy one someday.
Thanks for this very informative post, and I look forward to seeing more in the future!
Thanks to their efforts, residents of north central Eden Prairie stand a much better chance in the future of defending the beloved character of their neighborhoods and their communal values from the profit motive.
That action symbolized the hope that there would be no war in the future.
That all changed Monday when replacement pilot Jeff Arend guided team owner Connie Kalitta's Toyota Solara past four top-ranked opponents and into the winner's circle at Memphis Motorsports Park for his first win in 13 years.
That allows them to meet and exceed current standards, allows the addition of key minerals, vitamins and amino acids, and allows them to produce a truly balanced and nutritionally complete diet – only for dogs, for now, but likely also for cats in the future.
That amount is expected to triple within the next five years according to some analysts.
That battle began during the February 2008 elections when the returning officer rejected the nomination papers of both brothers citing convictions in cases slapped against them by Musharraf back in 2000, within a year after he ousted Nawaz Sharif, then the Prime Minister, in a bloodless military coup.
That changed in December, as Cornell beat Harvard 6-3 for the program's first win over the Crimson in 47 years.
That day lies in the future; it is not yet-here.
That expertise will be needed quickly: the act calls for the funds to be used within the next 18 months to 36 months.
That goal will become more and more critical as world oil production is set to plateau and decline within a few years.
That he hasn't felt like that in 10 years,he had a moment of weakness for a moment and read his Bible and felt better.
That is fair and it is incentive for your "invisibility" to be a temporary situation that needs to change in the future.
That is fine with me because i am interesting to work for disney someday.
That is nothing and hardly a figure that will generate the vast new supplies that will be needed to fuel global GDP growth in the next decade.
That is the crux of the matter; the nonconforming use will be phased out in five years.
That is the fundamental vision Kurt Vonnegut gave in Player Piano, a novel designed to predict what would happen in the future from a author who was then writing in the 1960s.
That is their estimate for what it will cost for the developing world to adapt (#ar8853) to the effects of a warming of 2C in the next 40 years.
That is who you and your wife will be--founders and populaters of another planet someday.
That is why an immigration bill will be passed soon within a few months.
That is why everyone of us should be ready to not to be found wanting when that time comes.
That is why the College’s Corporation has made the regrettable decision to close the Connaught Centre, and to look for alternative venues in the Hove area, so that we can continue to provide adult education across the city in the future.
That is, I write for myself in the future; and secondarily for curious family members .
That is, if you have a container full of tritium and come back in a million years, you will find that it has all turned into helium-3 (two protons, one neutron), which is stable.
That means a Long Island solar panel system will pay for itself in around 4 years !
That means leaving the coal in the ground, speeding up the transition to conservation and clean energy, and empowering local communities to protect the land and water where they live, so those places will support their children and grandchildren in the future.
That means that the regulations California has placed on in-use diesel equipment could come to your state sometime in the future.
That means, moon is in the same sign for 30 days in a year, and prediction suffers same handicap as in case of sunsign.
That number has now risen by 40 percent to 844 in six years, he says, calling it “quite a significant rise and a real one.
That significantly reduces the value of the “lifetime” map offer, but for an extra , it’s probably still worth it, assuming they don’t stop supporting it within a year!
That statement in the form is surely ambiguous, however it does not mean that depreciation will be deducted only once in the 3 year block.
That support will continue and perhaps increase in the years ahead.
That the Episcopal Church then in its first attempt at independent organization, should have retained only this Creed which, as regards the Godhead, is plainly and purely Unitarian, and not Trinitarian, is remarkable; and that in one year afterwards it should have unanimously admitted the Nicene-Constantinopolitan Creed, though by a majority it still persisted in keeping out the Athanasian, is only to be accounted for by the in terrorem letter of the Archbishop of Canterbury, in which he said: "Whether we can consecrate any (Bishop) or not, must yet depend on the answers we may receive to what we have written.
That the cloud movement is more than just a trend is validated by our research findings, which indicate that 50% of the respondents who were aware of but not currently using cloud-based apps are planning to deploy a cloud solution within the next 12 months.
That time is coming to an end in three years, and within five to six years you'll see spot prices very high.
That tiny bacterium could have been the source of a future world-wide plague (or even just a small infection) that was going to occur hundreds of years in the future, (but still in THEIR past).
That was our first trip together, alone, in 17 years, and it was the best one we had ever taken.
That was the first endorsement of any candidate that organization had made in four decades [CRTL: although because of a supreme court ruling now permitting them to do so].
That was the twentieth time in seven years that Israeli soldiers have attacked me.
That way you are investing in a wiring infrastructure that can support IP cameras in the future.
That way, the availability of federal dollars would not act as an encouragement to destroy embryos in the future.
That way, you will be promoted to the experts’ audience, and you can use the recordings to generate more revenue for yourself in the future.
That way, your business still makes money today while making a community contribution in the future.
That would, it seems to me, balance the budget in a year and leave the rich plenty of spending money.
That's amazing, too, because in the 63 years after the first 13 colonies joined together only eight states joined; then, after California joined in 1850 (only nine years later) eighteen had joined.
That's another environmentally-friendly practice they hope to implement on their farm in the future to save money and energy.
That's right, 2 shows in one month!
That’s a drop of over 105,043 mining jobs in West Virginia in a 56 year period.
That’s a small price to pay if you are concerned about your credit score and will be applying for a large loan in the next year or so.
That’s all happened in 12 months.
That’s as good a way to spend my entertainment budget as any other, and I can kid myself that I’ll sell it later and get some of that money back in the future.
That’s basically what they had done with all of these churches when they left them the last time, but now they could have greater confidence in the future of the new churches in Galatia, because God had appointed elders for them who put their trust in him.
That’s because the CCNA is vendor-specific and expires after three years, and there is no guarantee that you’ll be working with Cisco in three years, especially when starting out.
That’s exactly what I thought, so I wanted to share a few things you can do to make sure you are bringing in a monthly income even if you have a bad month and your typical sales are down.
That’s one hell of a long time - who knows if there will even be an Internet in 39 years, much less Joyland casino?
That’s the future, we’ll worry about it when the time comes — this is now!
That’s the one Tura Satana film I’ve never seen and I’d love to check it out someday.
That’s why I decidetd to also take pictures of the surrounding, the context of the touristscopes, in the future.
That’s why money and children is the number one idea when looking for a ray of sunshine in the future.
That’s why these compelling narratives of Jennifer Gratz and Barbara Gruder and everybody else who is a victim including Asian Americans at times comes out over and over again.
The "greater fool theory" holds that, because the predominant method of realizing returns in equity is from the sale to another investor, one should select securities that they believe that someone else will value at a higher level at some point in the future, without regard to the basis for that other party's willingness to pay a higher price.
The "shambolic and failed" drugs policy of the Government has been attacked after figures showed that drug offences rose by 14 per cent in the three months to June this year.
The $104 million facility was completed in 22 months, 14 months shy of the normal construction time for similar facilities.
The $6000 a year is 30 times what a peasant in Vietnam can make in a year.
The 16th Street Mall recently celebrated its 25th anniversary so it is time to take a serious look at the Mall’s future, what it was meant to be, what it has become, and what it should be in the future.
The 18-year-old beauty recently admitted while she hasn't been on a date in six months, she is happy being single until the right guy comes along.
The 20-year-old Thrashers prospect will undergo surgery to repair a torn ACL in his right knee today, his second such procedure in 10 months.
The 25-city trek, which kicks off October 4th in Nashville, marks the first time that all four of the talented ladies have come together for a cross-country praise-and-worship celebration in 20 years.
The 5,500 tonne vessel, with a range of 750 km, will become operational within two years after sea trials.
The ACs for the Buyer will be prepared within 2 months and prolongation of a resource on a glider and engines for 2 years is executed.
The ADA supports ongoing research in the development of new materials that it hopes will someday prove to be as safe and effective as dental amalgam.
The Administration's actions to recommend to the Congress only economically and environmentally sound water resource projects for funding resulted not only in our opposing uneconomic projects but also, in 1979, in the first Administration proposal of new project starts in 4 years.
The Agency continues to deny that geologic constraints on world oil production are imminent, and continues to focus on geopolitical problems and the lack of adequate investment in new oil production as the reason shortages could develop in the next few years.
The Algebra Professor could replace teachers, sometime in the future.
The American Power Act proposes that revenues raised from the fees paid by the utility companies and other industrial organizations in the future would be largely rebated to consumers.
The Army Story recreates several of the choice comic bits from the duo's 1941 feature film Buck Privates; best of all is the dice game, which shows that the their timing had slackened only the tiniest bit (if at all) in 11 years, and was so good that, if you look closely, you'll see that the extras in the scene with them can barely keep from laughing.
The Aug 21 election had produced Australia's first hung parliament in 70 years.
The Bank is undergoing a comprehensive reorganization and reengineering plan which will help move the bank from its current state into one of the best performing local banks in 2 years, a regional powerhouse in 5 years, and into a world class financial services firm in the next decade .
The Bank of Canada will raise its policy rate by a quarter- percentage point tomorrow for the second time in two months, according to all 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
The Bank of England's (BoE) latest Credit Conditions Survey  found that the majority of lenders expect to increase their levels of lending in the next three months, rather than reduce it.
The Basketball Playbook is one of the best playbook programs out there, and I hear it’s going to improve even more in the future.
The Bill was referred to the Department related Standing Committee on Agriculture (Chairperson: Shri Basudeb Acharia), which is expected to submit its report within three months.
The Bill was referred to the Department related Standing Committee on Labour (Chairperson: Shri Hemanand Biswal), which is expected to submit its report within three months.
The Bishop of Swansea and Brecon, Rt Rev John Davies, spoke out after Powys Challenge said it will have to close in a month if it cannot find Â£40,000.
The Boston MSA, one of the first major markets to see prices drop at the beginning of the downturn, saw prices start falling in 2005—nearly a year ahead of the national decline.
The Business Insider Apple's iPad Could Choke Google Android Development (AAPL, GOOG) San Francisco Chronicle He explains: His broad goal for a new platform is to get a million users in a year.
The Buyer of an option pays a premium for the option, which is a right to a long(Call) or short (Put) position in the futures market at their selected strike price.
The CB and RC groups were matched in sex and age within one month to the RO group.
The CCO hopes that their activism will prevent more than 8,000 foreclosures in the future around the state of Missouri  .
The CDC reports that for the first time in 100 years, children's life expectancy is projected to decline due to poor lifestyle choices around inactivity, nutrition and overweight.
The CFC level are diminishing and the models are predicted to improve in the next 50 years.
The California statute of limitations requires that action be brought within one year of when the injury is discovered, and three years from the date of the actual injury, making this is no small point.
The Canadian born and early adoptee group were matched in sex and age (within one month) with the children with greater institutional experience.
The Captain and I are hoping to move with in a year to a year and a half.
The Center for Social Media’s research, specifically within the Future of Public Media project  , suggests that people are increasingly turning to digital and participatory media when they seek to address complex shared issues.
The Church of today - her people, her pastors - is going to find living in this country to be more problematic in the future.
The City Council also indicated that if the area is redeveloped in the future for commercial use, Gateway Avenue West should be extended into the site, in combination with closing the west end of 237th Street SW to reduce traffic through the neighborhood.
The City hopes to perform more Area Character Appraisals on other neighborhoods in the future.
The Club's meeting site in 1930 was the Sherman Hotel, but within a few months, the site was moved to the Atlantic Hotel.
The Commission stop payment on all checks which are not presented for payment within two months of the date written.
The Community Radio Station is expected to be operational within three months as per the agreement.
The Company shall enter into an agreement with "B" setting out of the terms and conditions of his/her appointments as Managing Director, including his/her remuneration and perquisites, within two months from the date of its incorporation.
The Council will review the code in three years, should US investor groups do the same?
The Crosby song sold an estimated 30 million copies worldwide -- in 55 years.
The Cuban Women did what seemed the impossible by claiming their third-straight Olympic gold in Sydney, a stunning achievement that will be tough to match in the future.
The Cubs haven't won a championship in 101 years, but that hasn't stopped the crowds from pouring into the old ball park.
The DeSoto Next Generation Solar Energy Center was completed months ahead of schedule and more than $22 million under budget.
The Decedent did not die within three years of making the transfer.
The Defense Ministry will now assess the report, and Defense Minister Nelson Jobim announced separately that authorities will decide within one month the precise location for construction of a third runway at Sao Paulo’s Guarulhos airport.
The Department for Culture, Media and Sport tops them by spending £43,748 in a year.
The Diocese of Reno provides this formation in a four year Lay Ministry Formation program which includes as its components the human, spiritual, intellectual and pastoral dimensions as outlined in the United States Bishop’s document Co-Workers in the Vineyard of the Lord.
The Discipleship Handbook is packed full of some of the most practical, important and helpful lessons that I have learnt in the 27 years that I have been a Christian, and the 25 years I've been involved in missions.
The District’s RSS feeds are free, and additional feeds relating to other District website content may be offered in the future.
The Dollar rose 17% against the Euro in a month and made similar gains versus the Pound Sterling, the Canadian Dollar, the Swiss Franc and the Australian and New Zealand Dollars.
The EMI Gospel release, the group's first in 13 years, was originally released in April and reached Number One on the Billboard Gospel Albums chart.
The EPA expects mountaintop removal to double in the next 10 years if we do nothing to stop it.
The Ekoskola is about empowering students in the running of this programme thus ensuring that our Islands will have more responsible citizens in the future.
The Elders believe a successful campaign will put the church on a solid financial foundation for the years ahead.
The Entourage eDGe, a combo E-ink/LCD dual-screen tablet, uses Android to power the LCD side of things; currently it uses a proprietary bookstore, but it’s possible that in the future an eDGe owner could buy ebooks from Amazon as well.
The FAA reported this study found that in the 10 years preceding the study, there had been 6 aileron cable separations on B-737 aircraft.
The FCC is also starting a comprehensive review of VRS to ensure that this vital program is effective, efficient, and sustainable in the future.
The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) is overseeing the just-begun, four-year, $3 million OSU study, which is the first major research on the subject in 30 years.
The Federal Reserve Board knew that the amount of US debt scheduled for sale to the credit markets in the months ahead could undermine its low rate policy.
The Fusion futon mattress is an ultra-soft mattress that is light years ahead of many other futon mattresses.
The Future - A Build-Your-Own-Future Manual for Administrative Professionals - Create the Future You Want Author: Warren Evans (hardcover; 132 pages) Where will YOU be in 3 years?
The Gospel must not only offer a persona I salvation in the future life to those who believe; it must also transform all of the relationships of life here and now and thus cause the Kingdom of God to prevail in all the world.
The Government has launched a new strategy aimed at increasing international student numbers in higher education by 50 per cent and the numbers in English-language schools throughout the State by 25 per cent within five years.
The Group believes that in the future States Signatories need to be formally notified with due advance of the upcoming end of the mandate of the Executive Secretary, and that also in cases a reappointment is being sought, such formal notification should include a closing date for the possible nomination of candidates to this position.
The Group expects that in the future the chairmanships of the Subsidiary Organs of the PrepCom should also reflect the principle of equitable geographical representation.
The Group is of the view that consistent with the financial rules of the CTBTO, States Signatories in the future should be afforded the opportunity to decide what to do their share of the cash surplus.
The Group is of the view that this is only a tentative estimate, which could go up in the future.
The Group requests that the follow-up of the Action Plans for the implementation of the Vienna Declaration will be a separate agenda item in the future sessions of the Commission.
The Group shares the view of the related experts, donors and the PTS that this project was a valuable and successful initiative, and that should continue with more participants in the future.
The Group underlines that the duration of the WGB meetings should also be re-examined in a way that the meetings of WGB be held two times in a year, thus the financial burden on States Signatories be reduced.
The Group wishes to underline that the establishment of the mechanism for the review of implementation of the United Nations Convention against corruption is an important international achievement, which all States parties to the Convention must endeavor to sustain and consolidate in the future.
The HSA works just like an IRA account; any funds left in the account at the end of the calendar year will remain in the account and earn non-taxable interest to supplement medical expenses at any time in the future.
The Hospital has nearly 2 million inpatient and outpatient visits in a year, including more than 220,000 visits to its emergency departments — more than any other area hospital.
The Hundred Years' War (Guerre de Cent Ans was a prolonged conflict lasting from 1337 to 1453 between two royal houses for the French throne vacant with the extinction of the senior Joan of Arc (c 1412 Joan asserted that she had visions from God that told her to recover her homeland from English domination late in the Hundred Years' It was fought primarily over claims by the English kings to the French throne and was punctuated by several brief and two lengthy periods of peace before it finally ended in the expulsion of the English from France, with the exception of the Calais Pale.
The IOM committee will issue a report in about three months.
The IPCC added climate forcing in the next 50 years is 1–3 W/m2 for CO2 and 2–4 W/m2 with other gases and aerosols included.
The Internet makes for an artistic exchange with people that you’ll never meet in a million years.
The Japanese yen dropped sharply after the Bank of Japan intervened in the markets for the first time in six years to weaken the currency and the euro slipped back below $1.
The LMTC was asked to design a study pairing two sizes of lake trout in a CWT refuge study, including evaluation in 5 years.
The Lakers are unbeaten at home during this postseason, but will that be enough to keep the hungry Boston Celtics from a second title in three years?
The Laws of Thermodynamics) and will be wrong over and over again now and in the future.
The Lazio bill, which represents the most significant overhaul of federal housing policy in six decades, puts $6.
The Learner Panel offers students in Further Education the opportunity to tell learning providers and policy makers about their experiences of and views on education to improve the learning environment now and in the future.
The Lebanese project began several months ago and is expected to be completed in about two months.
The MBP was improved in ways large and small at each iteration and so my new machine seemed light years ahead of the old one.
The MONARCH II is lightyears ahead of the competitors.
The Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson was similarly effusive in his praise, saying: “In my 23 years working in England there is not a person I would put an inch above Bobby Robson.
The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan announced plans to implement policies to stimulate growth in the country's geothermal installed capacity in the next 10 years, by an additional 670 MW.
The NFL draft requires management to make decisions that will have a huge impact on the team’s performance in the future.
The Nativity Story has been a long time coming.
The Northwestern University Prosthetics Research Laboratory (NUPRL) and Rehabilitation Engineering Research Program (RERP) wants to know what you think about the current status of P&O research, and where you believe research efforts need to be directed in the future.
The Nuclear Energy Institute said it would accept the repository plan being shelved but in a way that could permit it to be revived if warranted in the future.
The Olympics this year will come with many obstacles for Pavol and Peter with strong teams put forward by many countries.
The Opening movie is also a treat: in the two years of Festival history, all the Opening or Closing Films have won top awards, and often audiences have the delight to meet the directors and actors in person.
The Oregonian was most read online, with The New York Times coming in second.
The PN50B530 comes with a full complement of inputs, ensuring that you'll be able to hook up any equipment you have or may get in the future.
The Palestinians might someday produce a leadership willing to make peace in good faith.
The Philadelphia Flyers have rekindled some of their old "Broad Street Bullies" championship days and are back in the Stanley Cup Finals for the first time in 13 years.
The Picasso, a 1932 work not seen publicly in 50 years, was purchased by an anonymous buyer from a.
The Rabbi explained that the numerical Hebrew abbreviation for 5766, taf, shin, samech, vav gives insight into the nature of the upcoming year.
The Ravens, Eagles, Patriots, Packers and Redskins join the Browns in expressing interest in hosting a cold-weather Super Bowl in the future.
The Reanda Group plans to capitalise on a government policy to develop 5 to 10 ‘super big’ domestic accounting firms within the next decade.
The Recovery Act was set up to deliver an immediate dose of stimulus to the states, and promised to deliver funds to any state that enacted reforms and promised to set up the expanded benefit within a year of enactment.
The Right Vehicle The vehicle selected for my journey to 9 million in seven years is to start and manage a business, this selection is appropriate for the compounded annual growth rate necessary to achieve 9 million in seven years.
The Road to a 300,000 Steady State Backlog, Victory in 60 Years: “Decreasing the size of the patent application backlog to approximately 300,000 cases”4 (#_ftn4) This has been a central goal of the Kappos Administration.
The Rosarito Beach Hotel won me over and it will be a destination for me and my sons in the future!
The SBCV goal is to begin another 70-plus church starts within the next two years in initiatives to reach the majority of Virginians who are unchurched.
The SD Association has ushered in the future of SDHC and SDXC memory card, where it recently unveiled a new memory card design that will enable superior data transfer speed compared to what is on the market today.
The SIAA would have up to 20 members in a year (I think even more) and obviously most would not play each other.
The Scar Solution  – This is a complete and organic skin regeneration system that will completely remove scars in under three months.
The Scottish Labour leader and First Minister wants everyone to stay at school or in training until that age, and he intends to legislate to make this effective within five years.
The Serbs figured that out - as other Continentals will in the years ahead: if you can't outbreed the enemy, cull 'em.
The Sioux Falls Storm (14-3) is traveling to Billings, Montana this Saturday night looking to claim their 5th title in 6 years.
The Star | PAJU, South Korea (Reuters) - A convoy of South Korean trucks carrying the first rice aid to North Korea in three years crossed the peninsula's heavily armed border on Friday in the latest of a series of conciliatory moves between the rivals.
The Suzuki SX4 is a quality vehicle, but you should learn about Suzuki SX4 Recalls and problems to protect yourself from expensive repairs in the future.
The Tongan government plans to lower its fossil fuel dependency for electricity generation from 100 to 50 percent in three years.
The Turkeys on offer are a little scrawny so the recession omits no man or fowl â€“ however in 6 months they will â€“ I am sure â€“ enjoy a fattening time, as we all hope to.
The US and Israel are sowing dragon’s teeth throughout the Middle East and their bloody harvest will come in the decades ahead.
The US might dare, it is reasoned, to abandon the Thieu regime within a year or so, but it would never dare to destroy the South Vietnamese Army.
The US team failed in a bid to match their 2002 quarter-final run and win back-to-back Cup matches for the first time in 80 years, while they have still not won a World Cup match in which they trailed.
The Unicode management should however ease your job in the future.
The United States Department of Labor (DOL) today announced that employers in almost every sector of work created a total 290,000 jobs in April – the most jobs created in four years.
The United States and China commended the outcomes of the visit to the United States by General Xu Caihou, Vice Chairman of the Chinese Central Military Commission, in October this year, and stated that they will take concrete steps to advance sustained and reliable military-to-military relations in the future.
The Vikings came within a game of the Super Bowl for the second time in three years.
The Vincent's rear suspension, decades ahead of its time, was comprised of a triangular-shaped structure located under the seat.
The WH has issued an edict unprecedented in 235 years of this country’s existence.
The World Bank estimates food prices have risen by 83 percent in three years.
The World Cup begins in a month, but, for many, the party has already begun.
The Year Ahead (/year-ahead/default.
The Year Ahead (year-ahead/default.
The Yotes are buying into a defensive system and if the kids improve and Jokinen can boost the offence, good times are ahead in Phoenix.
The ZX-6R’s all-new engine was redesigned from the crankcase up for the first time in ten years, leading to an ultra-high-rpm powerplant that produces more mid-range torque than any of its predecessors.
The Zoom World Map is so good that I will certainly be buying other maps in the future for other web projects which are currently in the pipeline.
The above message predicts great destruction in the future.
The achievement of writing a Novel in a month has no given me new confidence in myself.
The actual Enumeration shall be made within three Years after the first Meeting of the Congress of the United States, and within every subsequent Term of ten Years, in such Manner as they shall by Law direct.
The actual process depends on the period over which compounding takes place, but $1000 today would be worth $1100 in one year and $1210 in two years.
The additional accommodation would be greater than the allowances granted under H16 and could be made into separate habitable accommodation in the future.
The additional vehicle cost will pay for itself in one year or in five years due to increased fuel efficiency.
The advantage of identifying alternatives and evaluating them with respect to a set of criteria is that, when the time comes to implement a minimal-regret population, the survivors of the industrial world will know the best route to take, taking full advantage of a careful analysis of alternatives.
The advice would be published on a website and in the next year’s proxy.
The agreement, which was ratified nearly four months ahead of expiration of the current contract, runs through Feb.
The aim is to create a large but specialised work force to run such a grid in the future.
The aim is to have a roof that can sustain whatever Mother Nature will throw at it in the next few years whilst staying firmly in place.
The amount of rain you get in a year can also affect how long your newspaper will last in the garden, so the wetter your region, the more newspaper you will need to apply.
The annual issue bears the date of the upcoming year.
The appliances were still in the future.
The applicant has indicated that water quality will be maintained or improved within the future development through the implementation of innovative stormwater management techniques.
The area is going to be fairly busy in the next year or so.
The arrangement between the parties to the action was that the balance of the purchase price (that is the difference between the two Letters of Credit) would be paid within two months from the date of the trust receipt referred to above, the defendant company undertaking to make good such payment in the event of the Indonesian buyers failing to make such payment.
The article further suggests that, for a growing industry of debt-collection and debt-buying companies, those unpaid bills constitute a significant business opportunity both today and in the future.
The article is divided into nine sections and includes information on what users expected from Google, how Google responded to the inquiries, and where Google should go in the future.
The article says that, basically, there's over 100000 different types of ancient coins, and many of them are very rare - but there's so many, nobody cares, and you can buy them for $25 today, or $25 in 500 years from now.
The assistant of an ad filmmaker, Nandita Sharma someday hopes to bag an independent feature film.
The assumptions about a Social Security crisis are based on some--are rather strange, to put it oddly, mildly--they are based on the assumption that economic growth in the next 75 years will be approximately half of what it's been for the past 75 years and even below the quite anemic performance of the economy, contrary to Alan Greenspan, in the last 25 years.
The average American household credit card of $8400 would be paid off in about 6 years instead of the normal 24 years, and over $7000 in interest would be saved!
The average WRRS pays for itself in under two years by delivering top refinishing quality with superior energy and materials conservation – keeping cost of operation low and steel truck wheels on the road rather than in the junkyard.
The band went from nobody’s to legends in only 55 months.
The bandage was removed in 12 days and his wing still dropped a little but in four months one could never tell that his wing had been broken.
The bank's managing director Jakob Pfaudler commented: "It is reassuring to see that so many British expats are confident in the future of sterling which, after depreciating over the past few years, has stabilised as the economic recovery has taken hold.
The basics are that if you lose your job between the time you purchase the car and a set time in the future, they will take the car back without you owing anything else on it.
The battle against mildew will probably never end, but maybe someday researchers will find a permanent solution to this ever-growing problem.
The beauty and warmth of granite makes it an ideal material for aesthetic in home design, and the durability and easy care of granite worktops keep it a favorite for homeowners who are in the future.
The benefit of adding this strategy on 6 of our currency pairs at this juncture is that they will insure us (perhaps even benefit us) from a falling Dow Jones in the future.
The best questions for a woman to ask are ones that will help her get a full picture of what happened and how to protect herself in the future.
The best thing to say to an artist of any kind might be, "someday, people will think what you did is really important.
The best time for any emergency preparation obviously is before the emergency, and with the new year coming up quickly, make it a priority to get important emergency preparedness information into your clients?
The better education, the better opportunities of jobs in the future”.
The big question is, said Chávez, 38, in a recent interview, will the flavors/countries dominate one another, or cooperate in the next decade?
The biodegradable oval container is made from compressed plant material (rice hulls) and decomposes within 36 months or less when discarded.
The blight to their life chances is something that can't be recouped in ten years' time.
The blogs also are useful roadmaps forarmchair adventurerswho daydream about “someday” making a differencein Peru.
The board of directors shall hold the annual ordinary meeting of shareholders within four months from the date ending the account period of the company.
The board of directors vacating office must make arrangements to hold a meeting of shareholders for election of a new board of directors within one month from the date on which it vacated office, by dispatching a notice of meeting to the shareholders not less than fourteen days in advance of the date of the meeting.
The board will revisit the proposal in the future.
The book has diagrams and explanations that help develop mental awareness and, if readers follow the suggestions, this will empower them to manage their money now and in the future.
The book is an attempt to reinvent thrift in the United States, to find practical ways to help people consume less and save more now so that we can be a richer people in the future and a more prosperous nation.
The borrowing would have to be repaid with interest within three years.
The boys from Beantown captured three Super Bowl championships in four years and broke the Miami Dolphins consecutive game win streak in th .
The build on this model looks great and it's helped by the sleek and simple design: no fancy little bits that fall off in a year.
The building, constructed in two years, was built with an emphasis on employee comfort and energy efficiency.
The bulletin, a copy of which was obtained by the Tribune-Review, says "analysts expect that groups of environmental activists and militants on the one hand -- and property owners, mining and drilling companies on the other -- will be focusing their attention on one another in the future months.
The business that we do with you today is designed to bring you back to us for all your recording needs in the future.
The bust will be nothing like the one in Miami with there 45,000 (condo's only) on the market in the next two years.
The canker Results in the globalization tide, the 1997 financial crisis, Indonesia in twenty years in several months achievements of lost almost immediately, conflict, riots,UGG Classic Argyle Knit  almost all most foreign between days away.
The capability of the Galápagos National Park Service to understand the importance of intertidal ecosystems when directing their conservation efforts in the future will be enhanced by findings emerging from this study.
The central bank that undertook the swap would have to be certain that it could return the currencies to get the gold back at some point in the future.
The centres are to be setup in all the Panchayats of the division within one year.
The challenge for behavior analysis is to better understand the factors which underlie the human response to climate change, and ultimately how this response may be shifted to significantly alter the trajectory of climate change in the future.
The challenge in achieving effective management of multiple UAVs in the future is not only to determine if automation can be used to reduce workload, but how and to what degree in each of the control loops in Figures 2 and 3, as well as what kinds of decision support will be needed by operators given the high-workload environment.
The challenge in achieving effective management of multiple UV systems in the future is not only to determine whether automation can be used to improve human and system performance, but how and to what degree across hierarchical control loops, as well as determining the types of decision support that will be needed by operators given the high-workload environment.
The changes align the business around MEMC's primary end-markets, semiconductor and solar, placing operating responsibility with two senior executives as the company moves closer to a more formalized business unit structure in the future.
The chief executive favoured an energy mix, as a way forward to meet the energy requirements in the future by generating electricity from different sources including hydrocarbons, nuclear and solar, among others.
The child lost more than a stone in weight in a year and had to go to hospital.
The children saw four allergists in one year for tests.
The church also will host fundraising dinners and, in a year, will start a second three-year pledge for congregation members.
The church is mentioned by Jesus in Matthew 16:18 in the future sense “I will build my church”.
The clock and watch makers of ZENITH could not have anticipated that the brand would be able someday to give a new life to its caliber El Primero.
The club’s net debt increased in 2010 for the first time in five years, but it is still only £6 million, a level that the club believes is “sustainable” and “not out of control”.
The committee’s plans for the upcoming year are to continue to encourage involvement of ABAI student members; further promote PDS events for the ABAI convention through program representatives, our website, and e-mail summary of these events; solicit student participation at ABAI events through the Program Representative intiative; implement the strategic plan to further promote growth of student membership in ABAI; and encourage participation in the Presidential Scholar Essay Contest.
The communication insight seemed less momentous, however, when I learned that within a week of Roentgen’s discovery of X-rays in 1895, he had received 1,000 letters, and that within a year, more than 1,000 papers on X-rays were published in scientific and medical journals.
The company could earn $300 million in 2009, but will have to earn much more in the future for its debt to become manageable.
The company expects its research and development expenses to increase in the future as it advances imetelstat to Phase II clinical trials.
The company is hopeful this drug will be able to rake in sales upwards of Rs 30 crore in next two years.
The company must prepare share certificates for delivery to the purchasers within two months from the date of registration of the company by the Registrar or from the date of receipt of payment for all the shares in the case the company distributed the remaining shares or newly issued shares after registration of the company.
The company plans to invest $2 billion in the next 10 years.
The company shall also publish the balance sheet for public information in a newspaper for a period of at least one day within one month from the date of approval of the meeting of shareholders.
The company shall file a list of shareholders existing on the date of the annual ordinary meeting of shareholders showing items under Section 39 paragraph two to the Registrar within one month from the date of conclusion of the meeting.
The company’s 10th convention to be held in six years, will take place in Pittsburgh, Pa.
The complex interplay of technology, market forces and innovation in game design makes it impossible to project trends more than a few years in the future.
The consensus of the experts is that nearly all hotels except the extreme discount hotels will provide HSIA in sleeping rooms and in public space within two years.
The constant cycle of funding generates new loans for others in the future.
The construction boom in the coastal (beach) areas of Costa Rica is clearly evident where construction has increased 250% in 3 years.
The consultant will collect financial data, review and summarize the data, project revenue and expenses up to 20 years in the future, and explore funding opportunities as necessary.
The contest ran for little over a month and within a month we had decided our winner.
The contraption took in $1,000 in six months!
The cookie has two features that are important to understand 1) it has a set of Internet locations (such as the location of the site you have logged onto) that you might log onto again in the future.
The cost of utilities such as energy and fuel, and their potential impact upon pricing, will be the key challenge for our supply base and ourselves in the year ahead.
The costs and prices of water in the future will largely depend on the disinfection necessity and the applied technologies.
The country having just emerged from a great rebellion, many questions will come before it for settlement in the next four years which preceding Administrations have never had to deal with.
The court finds Cavanaugh to be inapposite because, in this case, Alls does not assert that she refused to consider changed circumstances but simply that she considered the evidence presented related to Savoy 's changed circumstances and found it insufficient to contradict her findings that Savoy could gain income in the future.
The court ordered that the law be changed accordingly within a year.
The court's monetary jurisdiction should be increased immediately to $15,000 with a further increase to $25,000 within two years.
The court, on separate motions, then approved various tax rates of the local taxing districts for the upcoming year.
The cry of "gold" brought the miners but within a few years, local areas were worked out of surface gold and Placer Mining had all but ceased when, as tradition states, Bennegar Rasberry's muzzle loader jammed.
The currency used to determine the value of the rebate, Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs), has dived to its lowest point in two years .
The current generation understands globalization and its impact and how to play in the future competitive economies.
The danger is the opportunity; the opportunity is the danger: In the next six months, you'll either refine your intelligence or waste your intelligence as you experiment with combining things that have never before been combined.
The date of election must fall within a two month period at the end of the term of office.
The decade was coming to a close.
The decades ahead brought both tragedy and triumph for Clapton; he struggled musically during the 1980s but managed to rebound a bit with the releases of Crossroads and Journeyman.
The decision in Bevans was closely followed by decisions made in two state courts and one federal court within the next two years.
The decision of a Trial Board or an Administrative Law Judge is final unless appealed to the state district court within one year after the conclusion of the hearing.
The decline of hockey from glory to shame has not happened in a year or two.
The dental workforce is aging with many dentists reaching retirement in the next decade.
The difference between the loan balance which include loan amount plus arrearages at the time of loan modification is divided equally and 50% are principle forgiveness and the other 50% become noninterest bearing “Deferred Principal Balance” due on sale of the property or in 30 years at loan maturity.
The divorce / dissolution can be final in six months and one day from the day that the opposing party was served with the papers.
The dollar value includes the amount paid for all common stock, common stock equivalents, preferred stock, debt, options, assets, warrants and stake purchases made within six months of the announcement date of the transaction.
The drift of the lei back to the shore indicates that the person will someday return to the Hawaiian islands.
The drifting of the lei back to the shore indicates that the person will someday return to the islands.
The drop-off in growth—while still a substantial drop in four months from March (442 percent projected growth to July 2009 (274 percent projected growth) -- is less likely to be caused by the economic downturn than political factors since the decrease in new hires is about the same for the past two years.
The economy and stock market seemed to be recovering, and there was optimism that the recession, like many of those before it, would be over in a year or less.
The efficacy of the cataract treatment was determined, and a new phenomenon of 'melting snow' was observed upon the instillation of N-acetylcarnosine within only 1 month of long-term treatment (see figures 4a-c).
The emperor, already crowned once at Notre Dame, was to go within ten years to be crowned at St.
The encouraging news for women receiving chemotherapy is that within three years, follow-up scans showed no differences among the three groups.
The enemy jailed his wife, and she died within a few months.
The energy that we are all connected too is what we shall expand in the future in 2012 and beyond.
The entire camp was ready for occupancy a month ahead of schedule.
The entire project would be ready in seven years where a record one lakh jobs would be created.
The equipment is still in the terminal, but Towle expects it to be removed sometime in the next two months.
The euro’s biggest rally in a year is threatening exporters in Europe’s weakest economies as they grow more reliant on international sales for growth.
The event takes place once in two years, becoming now the world's fourth largest such show.
The excavation will be resumed in the future, in order to establish if, as it is believed, the Casino stands on the ruins of the Martyrium of St Mark, a revered monument dating from the fourth century AD.
The experience of writing 50,000 words in a month is an arduous one, though there appear to be winners who logged in more than 100,000 words, which just seems impossible if you have a job and even a little bit of a social life.
The experts agreed that Mr B would require assistance with DIY, decorating and domestic chores in the future.
The eyes treated with N-acetylcarnosine were substantially improved in 6 months: the measured transmissivity of the lenses increased in 42% of the eyes by 12-50%; in 90% of the eyes visual acuity improved by 7-100%; and in 89% of the eyes glare sensitivity improved by 27-100%.
The fact is, however, that as our population grows and ages, Ontario will need more nurses in the future.
The fact that she can't speak English won't impede her progress in the future because looks like Aida's constitute a universal language all their own.
The fastest on the market is i7 processors for the 1366 socket, BUT the problems is that intel is gonna release i7 processors with another socket type later this year to work i7 into the main stream computers, which means you are not gonna have a lot of choices when you wanna upgrade your CPU in the future if you buy a 1366 socket board (X58) for the current i7 processors.
The feedback on the last Q & A newsletter was very good, so I'll do another one of those in the next month or two.
The female spawned with one of my males, thankfully (the mama of my current grown-out spawn) and then she and the remaining male died within a month.
The few shadow areas that still exist in Finland will be provided with filler transmitters in the next few months.
The film is set in the future and centers on a human, Freeman Lowell (Bruce Dern), who is the last crew member of a spaceship containing Earth's last surviving forests.
The final exam marks would help us get a good education in the future or some vague thing like that, but attendance could fail us NOW!
The finding showed the percentage of children getting asthma has doubled in two decades, rising from 3.
The first 300 MHz is to be released for use within five years with the next 200 MHz becoming available within ten years.
The first clue was that the filter — which hadn't been changed in about six months — was perfectly clean.
The first five appointees, however, would be given one-, two-, three-, four- and five-year terms so there would only be one appointment every year in the future.
The first is contrition, which means, according to the Council of Trent, 'a sorrow of mind and a detestation for sin committed with the purpose of no sinning in the future.
The first marijuana decriminalization bill in 25 years (viewtopic.
The first new album by Kurtág in six years is a major event.
The first right wing president in 52 years; 52 adding to 7, signifying a time of complement, and the leaders are a handful of business tycoons.
The first such law was created in Indiana in 1907, followed by 27 other States in the next 30 years.
The first time in 47 years that I ever remember having real “freedom from anxiety” was when these people were finally out of my life for good.
The following year Henry II sent John to rule Ireland, but John alienated both the native Irish and the transplanted Anglo-Normans who emigrated to carve out new lordships for themselves; the experiment was a total failure and John returned home within six months.
The forecast growth in timber frame houses in the 5 years from 2007-2012 is expected to be around 25% across all housebuilding sectors in the UK.
The forms usually must be filed with the government within seven months after the end of the calendar year or other 12-month period your plan uses for financial reporting purposes.
The formula will likely be renegotiated when the bill comes up for reauthorization in five years.
The full effect of King III remains to be seen but it’s certain that its proposals will find their way into every facet of South African business in the future.
The funding announced by Governor Quinn will help remove 36 of 112 homes severely impacted by the flooding, helping mitigate chances for flood damage in the future.
The future demand will however exceed their current capacity within five years.
The future of our intelligent being species was also to learn to be more company in the future with our own learning of self, exploration and finding other ways to fellowship with out species which was taken from those above in stellar space.
The game Moto Time welcomes you to the world of breathtaking motor-cycle races and formidable opponents.
The game had to be produced in six months, and a few days with a panel of game experts set us straight.
The garden will be located next to the library windows in the large planter area that is currently barren, leaving us room for future expansion should we decide in the future to extend the garden.
The global Red Cross network collectively aims to provide health services for up to 90,000 people, shelter assistance for 50,000 people, relief items for 75,000 people as well as water and sanitation services for up to 10,000 people within the next year.
The global community is where we are presently working to include our total population in the future in space.
The global need to find acceptable alternative energy sources is urgent as industry experts predict prices of up to $500 per barrel within a few years.
The goal, to be achieved within 10 years, is for at least 5 per cent of players in the men's and women's national teams and big competitions to be of indigenous descent.
The government will begin studies on nuclear power with a view to adopting it within about 10 years, he said.
The grant, in the amount of $100,000, was awarded to Sampson Community College through the JobsNOW “12 in 6” project which offers career training and certification in six months and at no cost to qualified individuals.
The great thing about this policy is that if you don't die within the 30 year period you get a return of all your premiums.
The greater the number of life crisis units in your life in any two year period, the greater your chances of becoming moderately to severely ill.
The highlights of this cigar — the gentle sweetness and vanilla overtones — are subtleties that I can easily see vanishing in a few months to a year.
The housing project, in partnership with Dutch companies Van Der Leij Foundation and Bouwfonds Nederlandse Gemeenten, is expected to be completed within 10 years, and will help ease Buffalo City's 75000 housing backlog.
The iconic American painter said on more than one occasion that “in the future everyone will be famous for 15 minutes.
The idea being that in the future, communication networks will be like roads, allowing a variety of traffic to flow along them.
The idea is still in the research and development phase, it could make its way into new cars within a few years, further improving on the already impressive efficiency of hybrid cars.
The idea is that the work will pay off, "In the future".
The incident, which was our nation’s deadliest mining accident in 40 years, was unquestionably made more tragic by the fact that it was preventable.
The incisors can grow 2 to 3 inches in a year.
The increase in the number of adults taking antipsychotics rose 13 percent in the four years ended in 2005.
The indicators reviewed above will be important to monitor in the next few months, because recession risk now seems to be more a question of “when” than “if.
The infrastructure objectives to be achieved in five years are feasible with definite requirements, which will considerably improve the environment for mass tourism.
The inspector shall report on the results of the inspection together with his or her opinion to the Registrar within two months from the date of appointment.
The inspector will tell you if there is anything wrong with the property that can potentially cause problem in the future (cracks on a roof, leaks, infrastructure damage).
The institute called the last two recessions and the current recovery months ahead of the pack.
The intro page is here  ; the initially released documents are here  ; and you can see what else will be released in the future on this page  .
The investment is due to recoup itself within 12 years, Manchev said.
The island was hit by its worst storm in 17 years.
The issue with the Hoover Dam is that the water level in Lake Mead is dropping 10 feet a year, so in 30 years, the power output will drop.
The journey through the stand extends to the future, exploring new technologies such as algae-based biofuels, solar power and fuel cells that could provide the building blocks for developing a carbon emission-free plane in the next 50 years.
The judges praised the Fire Safety Badge campaign for the way that it had got through to so many young people, and how through their efforts they might save lives in the future.
The judgment or decision of a majority of the trial board is final, unless the decision is appealed by either party within one year to the district court of the State of Texas, in which hearing the matter must be decided based upon the review of the record of the trial board hearing.
The key is the depth of the encounter and the resulting personal growth for better experiences with others in the future.
The king insisted on the maintenance of the peculiar writs of ancient demesne, even where the land had been given away by him, feeling that if it should escheat at any time in the future he himself would have more control over it in the manorial court than in the Common Bench.
The larger your body of quality content the greater the number of "natural", organic links a buyer can expect in the future and that influences his perception of how the site is going to fare once he's taken it over.
The largest field in 20 years just got bigger with the announcement of a 13th boat for this weekend's Lucas Oil Indiana Governor's Cup Madison Regatta.
The largest quarterly increase in public transit ridership in 25 years  (6.
The last faux pas here is that the opt-out process for these messages actually stop all further communication from the sender, there is no method to stop these (under X yrs) messages from being sent in the future… thus alienating your subscribers further.
The last two weeks of any year becomes a period where analysis becomes highly concentrated going in the next year.
The law will go into effect in six months' time.
The left side seems to go out almost immediately and they stop working all together in 6 months.
The letter itself is the driving force behind this package’s great results; it provides information on the activities of the Religious Right and delineates all of the challenges AU prepared to face in the year ahead.
The lifting ability of the truck is dependent upon this item and any fault in the fitting of the fork will turn out to be troublesome in the future.
The limitation period requires a patient to commence the action within two years after the date when the person commencing the action knew or ought to have known the fact or facts upon which the negligence or malpractice is alleged.
The lineup will be “a mix of evolution and revolution” in the future, said Jack Hollis, vice president of Scion.
The liquidator shall prepare the balance sheet and profit and loss account covering the period from the beginning of the accounting period to the date of registration of the company and deliver them to the auditor for examination within four months from the date of appointment and submit them to the meeting of shareholders for approved within one month from the date of receipt of the same from the auditor.
The long, viking-like (apparently) journey of National Novel Writing Month comes to an end at as of 12:01 a.
The luxury hotel market has gone from 0-60 in about five years with many of the city's best properties yet to come.
The magazine starts saying that isn't hard to know why Adriana became in only 10 years one of the most requested models of the world, and thats because she has a special appearence.
The magic wand you’ve introduced is the “perfect crime”- perfect not only in that there is insufficient evidence to prosecute you, either now or some time in the future (a lot of murderers and rapists who thought they got away with crimes decades ago are now getting convicted on the basis of genetic tests, which were possible when they committed their crimes- remember to future-proof your crimes as well), but that people are not even suspicious a crime has occurred.
The main body of the radio is in the center console under the cup holders (which are contained in a fairly easy to remove insert, so it will be easy to get to the radio in the future).
The main focus of a cap and trade program is that the central government puts limits on the total amount of carbon dioxide emissions that will be emitted in one year.
The major studios would have you believe they're about to go broke in the next few years because of Internet piracy.
The market has responded in kind and values have not onlyreboundedbut will no doubt continue toescalate furtherin the future as demand outstrips supply.
The master plan indeed projects a tourist site with a hotel on Society lands and specifies that all Palestinian homes in the area are to be demolished within five years.
The meeting under paragraph one shall be held within one month from the date of the number of directors fails below the number required for a quorum.
The memo concluded with a plea: "We request that you raise the subject of minders' conduct with the Executive Branch in order to prevent minders from comporting themselves in these ways in the future.
The men were interviewed again two years after receiving their diagnosis.
The message was strong then, and it's good to know that the message hasn't been lost in the 11 year gap leading to Toy Story 3, and is actually even stronger.
The minimum damages amount shall increase to $200 for the second violation within one year; and to $500 for the third and subsequent violations within one year.
The modifications are proposed to take place in the southwest quadrant of their property where most of the gravel extraction is currently happening and will continue to happen in the future.
The momentum of the early reform days flagged in the next two years, however.
The monetary crises that lie ahead in the next year or two will, we believe, will incite much more buying by central banks as confidence in the monetary system continues to decline.
The month is coming to a close and he has bills to pay.
The more riders who contact the AGO and MMA, the better off we will be treated now and in the future.
The more you take the time to read my reviews about Unless you want to miss out on the most exciting information about Short Term Memory in a Decade!
The morning had delivered Ben's third heart attack in six years--worse than either of its predecessors.
The most important of these stories I summarized in a monthly online newsletter called "Current CancerNews" that I posted on the Internet.
The most important part of this development process is to make sure the educational path you take is appropriate for your current role or one you would like to take on in the future, Beliveau-Dunn said.
The motion must allege, in addition to the lack of a deportation warning, that the defendant would not have entered the plea if properly advised and that under current law the plea does render the defendant subject to being removed from the country at some point in the future.
The movie released in September 2008 and is premiering within five months of its theatrical release.
The music the fashiion and the partying everything was great about this decade come and live it again for one night only be ready to show those new dance moves of to some classic tunes, it’s going to be a great party that is bound to raise a few smiles around the office.
The names, phone numbers, causes, dates, and times all come to me.
The nation would face a challenge in the future.
The national health educational and peer mentoring program is up and running in 50 high schools in nine states (AZ, CA, FL, MS, NJ, NY, OH, PA, TX) with future plans to implement the initiative in all fifty states in the next decade.
The nationwide selection process of underprivileged, deserving and motivated students, the development of market-matching training curricula, and the pedagogical approach make it a success: 92% of students find a qualified job within 2 months following their graduation.
The new book concludes that 20% of total Irish energy needs can be met by renewable energy within the next ten years and 80% by 2050 and that 20% of Irish GDP can be derived from clean energy exports.
The new immigrants did not settle in quietly, however, and within a few years the Portuguese had looted and ransacked several Swahili cities.
The new mandate, effective in two years, is one of the single most efficient anti-smog measures that the South Coast Air Quality Management District anticipates adopting over the next two decades.
The new maritime strategy is out, and for the first time in 20 years, the Navy finds itself with a new course and a new set of strategic priorities.
The new place on the plaza in town, and will serve as a hotel in a few years when it is ready.
The new project website is now based on MediaWiki using a complete new look and feel and will replace the old wiki in the future.
The number of children taking antipsychotic medicines soared 73 percent in the four years ending in 2005, far outpacing the increase in adults, according to a Medco Health Solutions Inc.
The number of consumers defaulting on their credit card repayments is predicted to soar in the next year, and it's predicted that getting a new card will become tougher than ever.
The numbers are sickening…many hard working people will not make the kind of money in 5 years – that a politician can make under the table for a little “help” to private industry.
The numbers of referrals are few, I do not expect much more traffic to be generated in the future as my sites are no longer listed in the new listings section.
The objects that make up the assemblage sometimes come together in the box just the way I had conceived the piece and sometimes not so much.
The odds are good that this will happen again in the future before Bil can extinguish that behaviour.
The offer in compromise proposed to pay a total of $15,000 by remitting $5,000 within 90 days of acceptance and the balance in 10 monthly installments of $1,000.
The one before that was wonderful and this one is fine, but in between I had a laptop that required one new hard drive and two new motherboards within nine months!
The one’s who are not opening their minds to the truth of this will simply be passed over when the time comes to ascend.
The only major problem we had, which is something I believe can be avoided in the future fairly easily, was that the battery in the truck died.
The only other area that they would use to squash the gold price would be in the futures and options markets, where individuals would act as counterparties to a cash market not a physical gold market.
The only way Durrrr won’t be around in 5 years is if he dies by a freak accident or if he makes so much money he decides to retire or do something else with his life.
The organization has also begun to reassess what today’s consumers really need from an oral-health plan, in an effort to revitalize what Yomtoob refers to as “products that, industry-wide, haven’t changed in 40 years.
The other considerations like people’s privacy or their land are totally unimportant to them; those people aren’t their clients or customers now, and they may never be their customers in the future.
The other option, and one which I expect will continue to see wider and wider acceptance in the next few months, is to equip the heatsink with a dynamic temperature reactive fan.
The other two witnesses told how Napoleon had repeatedly expressed the conviction that he was not bound by this marriage and that he regarded the ceremony only as "a mere concession to circumstances [acte de pure circonstance] which ought not to have any effect in the future".
The overall national debt, meanwhile, will rise to 100% of GDP within a few years, an alarming level by any measure.
The owner, such as myself, has to wonder what will happen in a year, five years, 10 years.
The owners of (PV) and iReally are better known for their first business set up in 2007, they were responsible for entering the highly competitive Bluetooth Marketing marketplace and becoming top dogs within 2 months, quite a feat for anyone, the secret to their success was the revolutionary iSite system which is showcased by iReally, it catapulted Ad-Pods on to the first page of every search engine worldwide and 3 years later they are still there, part of this systems success was the way web 2.
The pair noted that they'd need 2,000 employees, many with the skills of the population Lieburn mentioned, to build-up their company in the next five years.
The panel will then present the legal context, analyze the Supreme Court's majority and dissenting opinions, explore the major constitutional issues left open by the decision, and discuss the immediate implications of the decision and possible trends in the future, including the current bills being considered to enact a law that will survive first amendment challenge.
The paper, to be unveiled and discussed at the event, outlines a detailed, sensible plan for deploying broadband networks to 99% of our population in 10 years without requiring any additional federal funding.
The parents are obviously afraid they’ll someday forget this menial trip to a local farm and need hundreds, if not thousands, of photos to look back fondly on the day they paid so much attention to their child, nearly forgetting the true reason they were doing it in the first place.
The past performance of the Index is not necessarily a guide to its performance in the future and there is no certainty that the future performance of the Index will be positive.
The payment schedule included an initial payout, monthly benefits and substantial disbursements in the future.
The perils diminishing, in a few years many returned.
The person may not want you in the future after the need is met.
The person who made the statement about expierence will give us the same argument in 2 years about Obama.
The phoenix situation is going to be such a small problem in 6 months when other teams go bankrupt.
The plan also called for development of a plan to maximize use of available reclaimed water in the future.
The policy offers a vision of putting Nepal onto the global IT map within the next five years.
The policy that the Fed has introduced, quantitative easing, is going to insure inflation in the the years ahead and for years to come.
The political parties hesitate to take any action against the free power users because they need their votes at least thrice in five years, at the time of Assembly, Lok Sabha and local body elections.
The possibility remains of including these (and other) groups in the future as we learn what birders may wish to report.
The potential downgrade, while still far off in the future in PIMCO's opinion, seemed dubious at first blush.
The premium payable was however reduced to $623,199 and was payable within one month of 17 February 1976.
The premium was however reduced to $623,199 and made payable within one month.
The pricetag still would not make it affordable for everyone but in a year or two it will be the only way anyone will communicate.
The priority list reflects the security threats the defense establishment believes Israel will face in the next few years, i.
The problem was, it wasn’t the greatest Welterweight bout in 15 years, as advertised.
The proceeds from the sales allowed the BearingPoint estate to repay 100 percent of its secured debt, which had previously traded in the 20 to 30 percent range, within seven months of filing.
The process that we used re-centers us in the longer, broader vision of whom and what we are and what we want to do in the future.
The process will start again in December 2010 for the year ahead.
The program also requires audited financial statements for relatively small dairy processors (those purchasing more than $6 million worth of milk in a year.
The program includes an initiative to plant one million trees throughout the region in the next 20 years and plans to reduce water use and waste.
The program is currently in the final stages of data analysis, and the results will be posted within the next few months on the RRTC website and in future peer-reviewed journal articles.
The program needs to be available to the vast majority of homeowners in order to address the many loan programs that are either now causing or will in the future add to the foreclosure problem.
The project will be portable, allowing it to be moved to a different location in the future , representatives of MATC and Johnson Controls said.
The proletarians will never revolt, not in a thousand years or a million.
The promoters shall convene the statutory meeting when the number of subscribed shares reaches the number specified in the prospectus or a public meeting, which must not be less than fifty percent of the number of shares specified in the memorandum of association, within two months from the date on which the number of subscribed shares reached the specified number but not later than six months from the date on which the Registrar registered the memorandum of association.
The proof is that they just raised the national debt limit by nearly a trillion dollars (that’s no misprint), the second increase in six months.
The properties widget calculates a variety of molecular properties, this is a useful feature and I'm sure more descriptors will be available in the future.
The prophet Isaiah said someday God will “create a new heavens and a new earth” where “the wolf and the lamb will feed together and the lion will eat straw like an ox”.
The prophets claimed that all the things they spoke of would be manifest over the earth in three years, and on29th of October 1707, John Lacy said: If within six months to come these things are not confirmed then: ‘I shall before all the world acknowledge my delusion’.
The pumping system efficiently lowered dissolved MTBE concentrations in five years.
The purpose of this call is to educate and increase awareness of the likelihood of legislative actions that will impact the affiliate marketing industry in the upcoming year.
The questions one must consider are, will it appreciate in capital value, will it provide good rental return, does the property offer low maintenance in the future, and is it close to community and public services.
The real difference was seen in a few years when productivity increased first by 2% and than by 4%.
The real test, however, will come in the next six months: DDOT has stated that it will study these temporary improvements and then hire a consultant to completely redesign the intersection.
The rear spoiler has the typical fading on it like my current Beretta Z26, but it's not that bad yet, and I'll likely repaint it, the trim, and give it stripes in the future.
The reasons were the following: Regents View Care Home had the word CARE in capital letters Love and understanding A massive dose of dignity Always kept me in the picture with my mothers care and problems The nursing staff are fantastic As are the carers My mother passed away 3 years ago, and within 6 months I found myself having to make the same decision again with my Aunt.
The recent move by the Miami Heat confirms that we will someday soon have that good ole basketball back with all due respect to the Lakers-Celtics 7 game series.
The red flag was raised in Barton’s case because he went to four different high schools in four years and upon further inspection the NCAA saw that he didn’t completed HS within the NCAA mandated eight semesters…he instead graduated two months early.
The redesign, the first one in 70 years, was led by typographer and graphic artist Lance Hidy.
The relationship will help us to connect with employers both to provide training for their current employees but also to ensure that our young people get the type of education that’ll make them ideally suited to working for those businesses in the future.
The renewable energy sector, which includes solar, wind, hydropower, geothermal and bio-energy, is to receive $32bn in the next 10 years, with some $11bn of this being spent within the next two years.
The renewal date is in two months so let me know soon.
The renovated complex will be ready in six months time.
The report suggests that the Department of Workforce Development increase its role in program guidance and financial oversight in the future to insure that public funds are used solely for W-2 program purposes.
The reports follow a slew of data and developments this week that point to slower growth in the months ahead.
The resolution reaffirms the bonds of close friendship and cooperation between the United States and Israel and, looks to further strengthening those ties in the future.
The result of such an investment would be 2 million new green-collar jobs within two years.
The result of this work will be available in the next month or so along with a number of action items for CASA.
The result was a project delivered nearly one month ahead of schedule and at considerable cost savings to the client.
The resulting increase of gravity on our solar system is and has been causing terrible problems for us for the last century but in the next three years we will experience much more.
The results of this trial will determine if AFQ56 will be considered for testing in North America in the future.
The right insurance can benefit your family now, and in the future.
The right tools to handle your business volume - today and in the future.
The rise and rise of the stock market bubble had seen the number of workers on the trading floor triple in the three years leading up to the crash.
The risky places were the cities that were principally the high fliers in the realty boom; states like Nevada, Florida, California and Arizona don’t seem to be cited by PMI as smart risk areas in the next two years.
The roadway width would be worked out in a developer’s agreement, which would be far in the future.
The rules or regulation revolving around these loans are usually forgotten and when the times comes to pay back the debt or at least the debt installment these people are stranded and know not what to do.
The same prosperity which had attended him at Philadelphia, followed him to a more southern province, and in a few years he acquired a handsome fortune.
The scenarios lead to a wide range for added climate forcings in the next 50 years (vertical bars in Figure 7 (#Figure7) ).
The school will begin implementing this initiative by providing the computers to the incoming third-graders this fall, and hopes to eventually have laptops for all students in all three of those grades within the next few years, he said.
The second paper (Nehme, Mekdeci et al; ‘The Impact of Heterogeneity on Operator Performance in Future Unmanned Vehicle Systems’) looks at the gathering of information in the future battlespace using a ‘swarm’ of unmanned robotic vehicles, and how they can be easily controlled by shifting the ‘balance of intelligence’ from the human controller to the machine.
The secular cooling that must someday overtake our planet has already gone far indeed with our neighbour.
The series needs a visual overhaul if they plan to turn heads in the future — new models, outfits, hair styles, animations, etc.
The server has been patched accordingly, in order to avoid this issue in the future.
The service is completely free at this point, although premium services will become available in the future.
The session is designed to focus on Drexel faculty who will be making news in the next year.
The settlement bars the businessman from making false earnings claims, using shills, and misrepresenting the profitability of secured locations in the future, and prohibits him from violating the Franchise Rule or Business Opportunity Rule.
The settlement included claims for past and future loss of earnings, the cost of future surgery, claims for assistance in the future with gardening, window cleaning, DIY, domestic assistance and personal care, the cost of orthotics and equipment to be used by Mr B in the future, such as a profiling bed and stair lift.
The site is to become a tourist attraction when the dig finishes in a year or two.
The site owner hadn't really used the site in 2 years or did anything but pay the bills.
The site promises additional pieces in the future, however.
The situation will become more adverse in the upcoming years.
The small changes that technology can make to our lives, both now and in the future can at times be more important than we realise.
The smelting has started more than three months ahead of schedule and within budget.
The social worker also can explore alternatives for patient and family situations which are occurring in the present, have occurred in the past, and might occur in the future after the death of the loved one.
The songwriting and lyrical content is really miles ahead of anything else that was being released in that time period (1999 - 2000), and I always thought that it should have been considered another classic album in the futurepop genre, alongside VNV and Apop's offerings from that time.
The source is your imagination, which tirelessly churns out visions of what you'll be doing in the future.
The start of the rejection E- mail seemed like a stock standard reply, but the second half spoke of specific things in my application, my strength as a candidate, and said that I should apply again for positions with the firm in the future.
The stomach was then attached to the body wall (called a “gastropexy”) to prevent rotation in the future.
The stories are used in programs and are placed in our archive for public access now and in the future.
The study included 1,011 partnered women participating in the BUPA Foundation Health and Wellbeing after Breast Cancer Study, a prospective cohort study of women recruited within 12 months of their first diagnosis with invasive breast cancer.
The suggestion is there might be a policy decision in the future – scope creep rather than feature creep.
The surest way for us to be ready for Christ when He comes in the future is to be ready for Him now.
The surprise Democrats will receive in 20 years will mirror a scene from the movie "Malcolm X" where a white liberal female approaches Malcolm X and says, "As a white woman what can I do to help your cause?
The survey found that 40 percent of respondents are confident they’ll take a vacation in the next three months, up from 35 percent who took a summer vacation in 2009.
The survey results are based on 1216 online interviews with a national random sample of adults (ages 25-54) who are equal decision makers and who have either bought or sold a home within the past two years or plan to purchase or sell a home within the next two years.
The system was designed and developed with the picture of the “average guy” in mind: the guy who is spending a few bucks every week hoping that someday he will take the JACKPOT!
The system will provide comfort despite the fact that the insulation isn't installed very well, the house is fairly leaky, the ducts are sealed with duct tape which will fail within a year or two, and you're such a wuss that if you have to wear a sweater inside one or two days every couple of years during record-breaking cold spells you're going to whine to the contractor.
The tax credit could be taken over two years, and would be for purchases within one year of bill passage.
The tax remains in place until the bonds are paid off in about 10 years.
The technicians from the Las Vegas auto repair shop checks out the possible issues such as bad coil, failing fuel pump, starter motor, alternator and battery and offer such solutions which will avoid such issues in the future.
The terms of the deal were a small amount of cash, shares of stock in the acquiring company equal to an 8% ownership interest, and a transferable right to purchase the 92% balance of the company in 4 years (the date the current owner wanted to sell out and retire) under a pre-agreed formula that is essentially the same as the one contained in the Bizar Financing Business Price Calculator.
The terrible is in the future, and therefore the knowledge of the terrible is a knowledge of the future.
The test came back positive for the crystals and the doctor wanted to put the cat back on the Science Diet S/D and test him again in a month.
The theory is that (somehow or other, maybe, possibly, sometime in the future) this escalation of military testosterone in the explosive Mid-east might produce harmony.
The thing that you should know before using it that: I've written it in my school days in 5 months and if you see sth not working and many varibals, don't care about them and Excuse me!
The thought of being a freshman in like 2 months makes me wanna pee myself.
The time comes in nearly everyone’s life when the responsibilities of maintaining a home or property begin to interfere with living a comfortable, easygoing lifestyle.
The time comes, as we read in Romans 11 above, the fullness of the gentiles comes in.
The time is coming when he will again have to dance with the Snakes and the Foxes, playing a game that cannot be won.
The time will come when every change shall cease, This quick revolving wheel shall rest in peace: No summer then shall glow, not winter freeze; Nothing shall be to come, and nothing past, But an eternal now shall ever last.
The time will come when that is resolved also.
The time will come when the individual - those with a measure of sight, with a measure of understanding - will be called upon to give up, to make the great surrender.
The time will come when the spot price of uranium is going to return north of $100 per pound.
The time will come when this same Kingdom of God, which now is here like the tiny seed, will be a great shrub, so great that the birds of the heaven will come and lodge in its branches.
The time will come will come when she will confess anything, admit to anything, only to make the pain stop.
The toes of winter shoes this year come in all shapes, but the key trend is for the square toes that become so popular last season.
The tone of each year is different and fall into a pattern that cycles in nine years.
The tool also allows users to future proof their system by designing a configuration that not only responds to their immediate power protection requirements, but also those that they may be faced with in the future.
The toolbar representation doesn’t mean much for search traffic, as the pagerank stored on the datacenters is always up to 3 months ahead of that dispalyed in the toolbar.
The transition has been somewhat slower in India but in the next 20 years, our urban population might well double.
The tubes are metal and the joints are plastic (we'll see how they hold over time, I guess, but for thirty bucks, I won't cry much if it breaks in a year).
The two most famous confrontations both took place in Greensboro, NC within a month of each other.
The two plan to continue renovating structures along the Bardstown Road-Baxter Avenue corridor in the future and are currently looking at several properties in the area.
The two sides agreed that the transition to a green and low-carbon economy is essential and that the clean energy industry will provide vast opportunities for citizens of both countries in the years ahead and welcomed significant steps forward to advance policy dialogue and practical cooperation on climate change, energy and the environment, building on the U.
The university currently is giving its milk to an outside processor to make into ice cream, but the new creamery on campus is expected to be built in six months to a year, according to Limin Kung, professor of dairy nutrition at the University of Delaware and a member of the oversight committee for the new creamery.
The upcoming Saturn Astra is light years ahead of the Yaris.
The upcoming months offer some of the best times all year in the Denver area.
The varsity boys’ soccer team from Paul VI Catholic High School in Fairfax defeated conference rival Gonzaga for the first time in seven years last Friday.
The varushams repeat in a 60 year cycle.
The war saw only a 10% rise in the production of pig iron, though that industry had experienced a 17% increase 1855-60 and in the 5 years following Appomattox grew by 100%.
The way we are building will be the standard in the next five years.
The way we have been doing business for the last fifty years seems to have served us well but there is now a sense that "business as usual" may not achieve the outcomes we would wish in the future.
The way you grow as a human being is learn from mistakes and avoid that in the future.
The weather today is fantastic, but look to our west and we see what is to come in the future.
The weekly earnings of American workers, which had steadily risen during the years our parents and grandparents were employed, have fallen more than twenty percent since 1973, and the minimum wage hasn't moved in ten years.
The week’s winner will be included in a monthly poll and the monthly winners will be entered in a Grand Finale at the end of the year.
The well-preserved condition of the gate makes it possible to uncover the structure in its entirety, and the site will be incorporated into the tourism development project planned alongside the lake's promenade in the future.
The withdrawing member shall complete redemption within five years of the date of withdrawal, or within such longer period as may be fixed by the Fund, but shall not be required to redeem in any half-yearly period more than one-tenth of the Fund's excess holdings of its currency at the date of withdrawal plus further acquisitions of the currency during such half-yearly period.
The workers, knowing that the ability to negotiate in the future will depend on getting the union they support recognized, rejected the offer.
The world is going to be a much poorer, dismal place in 20 years.
The world sponsors of the Middle East peace process have called on Israel to extend its settlement moratorium, in a bid to map out a peace deal within the next year.
The world would love for you to take out the garbage, mow the lawn, do more service at the university, be better prepared for your classes, paint your house, call your father, write that letter to your friend who you haven’t returned the letter to in three years.
The world's largest auto-maker is likely to report a smaller-than-expected operating loss in the six months to September thanks to recovering sales and a weaker yen, a report said Thursday.
The writ of summons taken out by the respondents as plaintiffs in this case was not served on the named defendants within 12 months of the issue.
The year ahead will witness growth in jobs and change in hiring trends.
The young are weaned and independent within one month and are sexually active by the next breeding season.
The youngest sailing, Sutherland brother Abigail and Zac report that they miss contact  someday and now rescue team searching for teenager accross that place.
The “sicker and sicker” part really bothered me – I really take great pride in how I raise my kids, and the idea that I might not be around in the future to guide them pissed me off to no end.
Their battle finally culminated in a decade of military rule that the leadership of both parties had to sit out.
Their goal is to have these submissions completed within a few months.
Their message to be proclaimed to every nation starting from England was that the grand jubilee, the accomplishment of those numerous scriptures,touchingthenew heavens and the new earth, the kingdom of the Messiah, the marriage of the lamb, the first resurrection, or the new Jerusalem descending from above, was now even at the door; that this great operation was to be wrought by spiritual arms only proceeding from the mouths of these (inspired ones)…(The prophets claimed that all the things they spoke of will be manifest over the earth in three years, and John Lacy said: If within six months to come these things are not confirmed then: ‘I shall before all the world acknowledge my delusion’, which he witnessed on29th of October 1707).
Their participation in these historic processes has not only helped Afghanistan to establish its key state institutions but also has ensured that women secure equality to men in leading these institutions in the future.
Their romance bloomed, and within three months they were engaged.
Then come back in 2 months and see the finished product.
Then from there one can move forward to the months ahead or backward to the past months.
Then in two years the 4X4 could be turned over and used as a patrol car.
Then it will make sense as far and the big picture of what we currently get from renewable energy, what the restrictions are, and what we can look forward to in the future.
Then my thoughts are broken when the warden comes into the death house to tell me what will be taking place when the time comes.
Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig-tree and find none: cut it down.
Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?
Then start the non-thesis MS BIO program IU offers in one year - 15 hrs per semester for 2 semesters.
Then the amnesiac vision i'd had of myself from across the room, wearing the striped green shirt—NOW I could remember that it was me—And in the dream I'd been growing YOUNGER, which brought about changes in my facial form, not necessarily for the better or worse—I just CHANGED subtly over time (backward time) and my mind flooded with horror at the thought of people moving through time, leaving these old versions of themselves in these memory storage worlds ("stranded in infinity rooms", another apt lyric by Beck—"The People's Pimp" was a biography of Beck which I saw in Atomic Comics in a dream of Phoenix I had about 9 years ago)—A wave of sadness actually juiced diamondlike tears out of my eyes, as I realized that in this amnesiac state, wherein I'd had absolutely NO IDEA of WHO I WAS, and yet I was LOOKING at myself—or a version of myself that lives in my imagination based on who I might be in the mind's-eyes of thousands of eyes and minds I've seen seeing me and thought of thinking of me, and ideas of who I used to be, and who I might be in the future—In this state of WHO AM I ?
Then when decal time comes, carefully cut away the yellow squares from the checkerboard decal and apply the remaining strip of red checkers to the nose.
Then you would try and get in six months before the whole thing collapsed.
Then, in a surprise move on the eve of war with Iraq, President Bush made a point of speaking out on the Israeli-Palestinian situation, announcing plans to go ahead with the long-delayed "road map," crafted with America's Quartet partners and calling for a cessation of violence leading to a Palestinian state within two years.
Then, she told him that she hoped that someday that he would come to know the love of God in his life.
Then,a budget review team consisting of the city administrator, director of finance and the mayor meets with department and division heads to discuss the details of each manager's requests for the upcoming year.
Theo is appointed by the extremists to escort the first pregnant woman in 19 years out of the dangerous British borders.
Therapies such as strontium and denosumab may be available within the next few years, while other novel therapies continue in Phase III trials.
There are a number of explicit statements in the New Testament, as well as the basic structure of New Testament theology as a whole, which compel us to conclude that the blessings of The Age to Come remain no longer exclusively in the future but have become objects of present experience in This Age.
There are courses available that enable you to rank an entire knight s honor online within two years.
There are currently four red wines available in the Crushendo series and certainly more coming in the future!
There are many ideas springing up concerning what AdSense will look like in the future and how the system will change as opposed to what it is now.
There are many mysteries that will be explained in the future once we begin sharing and comparing our information with others around the world.
There are many reasons to believe that a reduction in the size of the VC industry will be healthy for the industry overall and should lead to above average returns in the future.
There are other paternity cases that may be addressed in the future, new extended genetic profiles that could be reconstructed about him or his immediate family.
There are others but I think you get the idea that anything Tiger will be expensive in the future, so find it now.
There are others who fear that their loved one may someday commit this act and there are yet others who fear they will one day be tempted into infidelity and will fail to resist.
There are places where you can get an accelerated Bachelors degree in three years.
There are professionals readily available to assist community associations in protecting the physical and fiscal needs of their communities for all the years ahead.
There are significant capital, operating and other costs associated with compliance with these environmental statutes, rules and regulations, and those costs could be even more significant in the future as a result of new legislation, the current trend toward more stringent standards, and stricter and more expansive application of existing environmental regulations.
There are some dimensional time travel expectations to be shared in the future.
There are some exceptions, but synthesizers and semiconductors have come a long way in 40 years, and most of these early solid-state radios aren’t worth the effort.
There are some interesting languages springing out, such as F#  , so we will hopefully see some new and old ideas put into action in new or updated languages in the future.
There are thousands of drug rehab facilities and addiction treatment centers, as well as recovery groups and self help services, yet when the time comes to actually get help it can seem like no one is around.
There are two big problems for theequities and commodities marketsin the month ahead.
There could be in the future but to date, there is no Linux virus in the wild.
There have been many, many little tips and tricks, that have saved me, and will save me, thousands of dollars in the future.
There have been no jury trials in the three years I've been here.
There is a broad range of plug-ins we plan to offer in the future.
There is a portal to be opened in the future and many may find the portal to the next dimension of life.
There is a rationale on wanting to fine-tune a warp: you want to come out exactly where you want, when you want, give or take a few thousands of kilometres and you don't want to cross any enemy ship during FTL cruise; of course, you can't engage in combat while in warp because the relative velocities are so high that there isn't a chance in a million years you could bring your weapons to bear in the brief moment you have contact and even if you could, the Hawking Drive screws up so much with the space-time continuum that any missile or beam fired from your ship would be torn apart or scattered by the tidal forces on the edge of the hyperspace "bubble" surrounding the craft.
There is already Fifteen Saw Mills built and building in the New Townships, which in a year or two will cut deals more than sufficient for their own Consumption ; as the Colony is daily increasing and there is the greatest probability of having large Embarkations of Protestants from the North of Ireland, this business would not only be a ready means of giving many of them a speedy Subsistance but greatly assist them in clearing the Wood Land to cultivate for the support of their Stock.
There is also the bar with pool table and internet points, the massage service and relaxing sun terrace to keep you entertained on site; while in the future, the development wellness centre will make the Beldes in even greater haven from the heat and noise of the city centre.
There is an advantage presenting a specialist radio show: I get the occasional promo a little time ahead of the UK release date.
There is going to be some major innovation in the next year with crowdsourcing.
There is lots of good information there if you've ever considered VOIP or might consider it in the future.
There is much to be shared in the future with our body-mind-spirit expansion in the universe.
There is no answer, its just a matter of does it all go wrong in two years or five.
There is no limit on he number of people the Decedent could have made these gifts to in a year.
There is no more need to take your pool apart to replace a liner in the future.
There is no point that you could build your biceps in a month if you exercise it daily.
There is no reason why articles could not be processed in two months (average).
There is nothingone commissionercan do about global warming flooding out the Keys in 100 years.
There is room for an air mattress, although i hope to find a fold out futon in the next few months for guests.
There is so much to do in the days ahead…ESPECIALLY since my fiance and I have decided to get married in 4 months!
There is still no way for customers to directly open up a support ticket with RIM but hopefully that will come in the future.
There is strong evidence, for example, that, while pre-Homeric ancient Greek was originally more complex in terms of its forms than the Homeric and Classical Greek we possess in abundance, it originally was far less concerned with tense, and it is quite possible that the development of specific markers and forms to show that an action was in the future or definitively in the past were later developments.
There may be more than one small event in a month.
There may be noticeable warming due to the action of man in a 100 years or so – but that’s plenty of time to adapt.
There may be signs that the economy may be emerging from recession but most experts agree that there are still uncertain times ahead with huge cuts in public services almost certain as the UK struggles to cut the massive budget deficit.
There view point as a benevolent intelligent being species is to become somewhat influential in the future if their counterparts show up who are also intelligent being species but are malevolent and are embattling with an attitude that they are to retrieve the spoils of war left on undesirable planets.
There was no mention of a "probation period" he was just told that in 3 months they would look at making him permanent.
There were many who appeared in Israel in the 39 years between Jesus’ ascension and the destruction of the temple, most notably Herod Agrippa  , the nephew of Herod Antipas  , who tried Jesus in a few days.
There were more than one hundred religious and civil celebrations in a year, the largest sponsored by the authorities as crucial means to embody political and social concepts.
There will always be beaches, but sea level rise will ensure that they will not be in the same place in the future.
There will be great advances in administrative management in the future, but they will not come without opposition from timid souls or the privileged few who seek to maintain the status quo by keeping government weak and ineffective.
There will me much more information about this show in the upcoming months.
There will not be a world to inhabit if 60% of the world is not using solar panels to produce energy in about a hundred years.
There will not be a world to inhabit if 60% of the world is not using solar panels to produce solar electricity in about a hundred years.
There's no sense in paying $500 or less for something that's just going to be junk in a few months.
There's one for children from 8 years up with a bit more complicated recipes (Honest Pretzels  ), but I don't know how that one is yet - ask me in four years time.
Therefore GANAG will set up further co-operations with roaming partners to be in a position to offer, also in the future, the best possible service.
Therefore I can express nothing but gratitude to the school educating me for what lies in the future.
Therefore in the 20 years of rule, suharto to this country contribution is too big, national should thank him.
Therefore we have about 4200 horns made in the 40 months from 1/60 to 4/63, an average rate of roughly 1250 horns a year.
Therefore, that company focuses on consoles, and might release some of their own titles in the future, apart from PC game ports.
Therefore, the date when a domain expires in the future can be used as a factor in predicting the legitimacy of a domain and, thus, the documents associated therewith.
There’s a big focus at Nimbus in the year ahead to expand our North American Operations to support the increasing demand we have for Nimbus Control.
There’s going to be other stuff like shirts and prints in the future, but that’s after I stop being lazy and THERE IS NO END TO THAT [.
There’s some lovely stuff on there, I’ll definitely be buying stuff from them in the future!
These are based on the idea that past actions may predict behavior in the future.
These are both two major things that may affect my life as well as others, so I am hoping that any change in the future is positive even though articles like these exist.
These are found in the 2000 year old sea bed deposits, and are loaded with chloride.
These are joints that produce the fire of His presence every time we come together.
These are protected by federal law and must not be put in 70 years.
These are rare and cause severe vaginal bleeding; the conceptus is expelled or discovered within a few months after implantation.
These are skills we have become very disconnected from and that will be essential for all of us in the future.
These can, for as much as several years at a time, produce distortions in the relationship of existing prices to real values almost as great as those faced by the merchant who can hardly give away the high quality knee length dresses in a year when fashion is to the ankle.
These carpets soil easily, are damaged by walking or prolonged pressure and are generally disfigured within a few years.
These changes are structural, not superficial; Asia has righted itself, and investors can expect even better times ahead.
These changes must be made within six months of the application date and could include establishing a single entry point system, optional presumptive eligibility, case management services, and a statewide standardized assessment instrument for determining eligibility for HCBS.
These children will someday be caring for our needs and protecting our well being.
These could be used in the future to make the most powerful bioweapons imaginable.
These days we had sex only 5 to 6 times in a month.
These directions may change in the future.
These discussions would often lead to fantasies that we would both someday like to bring to reality.
These effects became far worse after the imposition of the Cuban Democracy Act, which cut back licensed sales and donations of food and medical supplies by 90% within a year.
These efforts -- including today's presidential elections and the parliamentary elections that will follow in several months -- are essential for the establishment of a sovereign, independent, viable, democratic, and peaceful Palestinian state that can live alongside a safe and secure Israel.
These eggs are stored in groups of ten, in individual straws and available through our Egg Bank for use anytime in the future.
These factors have significant implications for the future, since the most important world oil production base – giant fields – will decline more rapidly in the future, according to our findings.
These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements expressed in this press release.
These girls are going to have to learn someday.
These guidelines also state that patients who undergo surgery within 6 weeks of BMS placement or within 1 year of DES placement should continue perioperative dual antiplatelet therapy (Class IC).
These guys are looking in the future when they will have to go back to Haiti.
These guys make 11% in a year and they are overjoyed.
These habits at times come as an obstruction in a happy relationship.
These have been and will be our main pillars in the past and in the future.
These homers also gave McGwire the distinction of breaking the record for most home runs hit in one month (17) for the St.
These lesson plans originated in my resource room classes when I was teaching bright but struggling learners so that I could get a 2-year growth in a year.
These new technologies will change the water treatment markets in the next 10 years dramatically.
These policy options only skim the surface of what the Environment Team hopes to offer the Transition Team in the months ahead, as we look to the larger universe of best practices for protection of human health and the environment.
These preparations are known not be effective within several months of using them.
These principles relate to the return of the occupied territories surrounding Nagorno-Karabakh; an interim status for Nagorno-Karabakh guaranteeing its security and self-governance; a corridor linking Armenia to Nagorno-Karabakh; the final status of Nagorno-Karabakh to be determined in the future by a legally binding expression of public will; the right of all internally displaced persons and refugees to return; and international security guarantees, including a peacekeeping operation.
These privileges may be withdrawn in the future, though lobbyists are trying hard not to let that happen.
These reactions usually decrease over time, and end within a few months after LSD was last taken, but may continue for years.
These shall be carried out within one month from the date of the period expiration.
These shall stand written for the Justicars to hear within one year after which all allegations are no longer valid.
These signs of premature maturation decrease or resolve following the decrease in TSH secretion within six months of commencing appropriate thyroxine replacement.
These six powers have expended altogether $3,954,500,000 for military purposes in three years, or at the rate of more than $1,318,100,000 a year.
These steps you take today will help you reach your financial goals in the future.
These three Democrats are potential votes against cloture, if we can get them worrying about how such a usurpation will affect their own reelections in two years.
These “ideal values” are the ones that we long, with all our heart, to find in another person someday.
They ARE releasing movies within a month of DVD release.
They add volume and set up the foundation for a better facelift result in the future.
They already imitate many of the moves they see in televised events, and it seems like something that they could participate in and perhaps compete in the future.
They also discussed ACAR’s desire to purchase an existing Certified Business Enterprise (CBE) with the intention of awarding contracts to his own CBE in the future to increase the profit margin.
They are 3-5 years ahead, typically, of the medical community in recognizing and reporting publicly, research germane to attaining and keeping optimal health.
They are furthermore worried that this legislation will extend to affect large and small businesses in the future.
They are going live in a month.
They are left with a desire to have their own shed in the future but fail to do so because of insufficient funds and lack of space area.
They are not crying wolf and taking a Malthusian line but are pointing out the reality and trying to solve the problems that it will create in the future.
They are not ready for prime time: This is largest party function to take place in 30 years.
They are talking about phasing that out but it far enough in the future the current politicians won't have to worry about doing it and I'd expect the programs to be extended as the date gets closer.
They are the reason we have been so successful and the reason we will continue to be in the future.
They ask if she wants to have kids someday .
They became too strong and showed too much interest in the future of the Greek world.
They both agree with the measurements and both told me to come back in 6 months time for more stockings and a re-measure.
They both realize that they can not depend on their parents in the future.
They built pyramids in Sudan – even though pyramid building in Egypt hadn’t been practised in nearly 800 years.
They can instruct, they can explain, they can reason and they can help, but the time comes when the child is forced to have those facts embedded in the physical mind.
They can make a difference in a very short period of time and within one month can help you control new break outs and eliminate the ravages of old breakouts.
They can take advantage of economic environment about the price in the future with adequate warning.
They certainly very frustrated and make a big decision to buy by him or her in the future.
They cited Impression Liu Sanjie, another outdoor performance in south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, which recouped its 70-million-yuan investment in one year, and earned over 80 million yuan yearly.
They could not be more sensitive, or more alarmed, or more ready to spend their wealth, if they expected war as a certainty within a month.
They didn’t examine whether a better score leads to better governance or economic development but will be examining these questions in the future.
They don't have a left hand version yet but are working on it we should see it within a year.
They don't know that the container and the generator create possession of an area where in the future a major highway will pass that links the coastal plain to the Jordan Rift Valley.
They expected to be included in all the fun, but they would never in a million years think that anything was expected of THEM, other than to show up at other people’s houses, eat, and go home.
They fasted on Passover because Esther reasoned it would be better to fast on one Pesach lest they all be destroyed and thus never be able to observe the holiday  in the future.
They fight in Congress all year long, Summertime comes and they're all happy, chatty, having barabecues togetherin Cachagua, Caburga and Zapallar.
They have increased their gate from 7,500 to 20,000 in a decade.
They have not been done in two years.
They indicated that the involvement of WHO via PSA had contributed to this, and that many higher level government and nongovernmental authorities became involved, and were directly supportive or guaranteed support in the future.
They join DysfunctoSoft and then quit/get fired within a year.
They jumped from 9 to 200 million in 80 years [and the survey’s authors] expected them to reach 390 million in the year 2000, or 48 percent of the whole population of Africa.
They lived in Malda seven years where he worked in an indigo factory and persisted in learning native languages although unable to convert any natives.
They lost control of both houses of Congress for the first time in 40 years, in large part due to stalled legislation, including a failed attempt to create a comprehensive health care system under a plan developed by the First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton (/encyclopedia/index.
They made out like there was NO other resveratrol available while we wait for the drug in five years.
They managed to spend, on hotel accommodation in one year, £5,790,000.
They may not want to upgrade now, but they may want to protect their chances in the future.
They need reasons to believe they have a stake in the future.
They play 4 tables at a time and play 600,000 hands in a year.
They pleaded with us to keep on fighting for their freedom and give them hope that their country would someday be like America.
They predict that the technology will rapidly spread, and some industry-insiders even predict that the mangiwork free energy generators will be the energy in the future.
They rounded off my question by assuring that ASVM1 Content (AS1 and 2 SWFs) would continue to be usable in Flash Player releases in the future.
They seemed to grow bigger with each subsequent single (“Let Her Cry,” “Only Wanna Be With You” and “Time”) and in one year went from playing keggers to being satirized on “Saturday Night Live.
They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the time cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service.
They should be able to play against players their own size at European championships in the future.
They speculate that doctors might someday even figure out ways to make people fall in and out of love, without the associated pain!
They told the Gazette-Journal a $35 million upgrade of the system will be completed within four years, but in the meantime they will look for ways to more quickly notify claimants of disputes.
They usually have 2 broods but sometimes have 3 (We've had this happen one time in 5 years).
They wanted to be a Pilot, Doctor, Nurse, and Teacher and told me they’d visit me someday.
They were concerned that with a tough economy donations might be down in a year when so many needed help.
They will certainly thrive in the marketplace and become a formidable force in the future.
They will ensure you do not receive the updates when you reload your card in the future.
They will notify you within a month if your submission will be posted publicly in the gallery.
They will often associate the behavior with an ill desired stimuli (the squirt gun) and potentially deter the behavior in the future.
They will surprised about that and will thrift or studying harder to earn more money in the future.
They won't need his vote in the future either after he gets voted out of office by Democrats such as myself.
They would probably prefer that time come later rather than sooner and, for now at least, are being patient with Maslowski.
They'd all done a ripping Curse of Frankenstein two years earlier, a great Dracula the year before, and a decent version of The Mummy the same year as Hound.
They're absolutely beautiful, I look forward to buying from you again in the future!
They’re therefore encouraging you to check out The Learner Panel within the next month!
Things mostly get interesting when it gets past 100,000 unique visitors in a month.
Think about scalability, what you are expecting in the future.
Think of the possibilities of where your business will be in 3 months.
Think timeless, something she will not want to replace when it goes out of style in 5 years.
Thinking about the reason home health is necessary now and in the future before looking for providers will help to narrow the search.
Third, it requires additional information from NASA to ensure that Congress has the information it needs to make policy decisions in the years ahead.
Third, they give short shrift to technology advances that can reduce emissions in the next 50 years.
This additional income allowed Gemma, at the tender age of 22, to purchase a three-bedroom house within six months, despite having to also help support her student partner.
This area of study is geared towards Registered Practical Nurses who want to obtain a BScN in about three years.
This article  from leftist Internet magazine Salon speculates that Paul’s anti-Fed, pro-gold message might sell better in four years given the current economic crisis, a crisis he nearly alone in Washington has been predicting.
This article looks at today's ebooks and where the industry will need to go in the future.
This article may be expanded in the future to contain more information regarding basic lode gold sampling techniques.
This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by conventions in the several states, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the states by the Congress.
This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of the several states, as provided in the Constitution, within seven years from the date of the submission hereof to the states by the Congress.
This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several states within seven years from the date of its submission to the states by the Congress.
This article shall be inoperative unless it shall have been ratified as an amendment to the Constitution by the legislatures of three-fourths of the several states within seven years from the date of its submission.
This behavior might change in the future.
This bridge collapsed twice within a month; how shocking!
This brings me to my next point, in about 2 months time it would be this site’s 1 Year Anniversary =D Hope this listing will continue to grow.
This building is now being planned and the ground will be broken within the next few months.
This can cause serious environmental issues in a few years from now.
This casts doubt on the claim that rapid and dramatic build-ups of CO2 will occur in the future.
This chalk was the hardest we've ever encountered in nearly 3 decades of collecting in the Niobrara.
This company gave a bonus some 10 to 11 years back and within a year after disappeared from the market.
This company has provided me with the chance to produce another stream of income while investing in the future.
This could be a short-term solution that would not prevent the other alternatives from progressing, if it is deemed in the future that alternatives 3 or 4 are preferred.
This could make the infection harder to treat in the future.
This cycle may repeat for months or years, but generally the intensity of the efflorescence decreases in all but very extreme cases, is practically eliminated in about three years.
This data serves as a preview of your financial expectations, help you identify what problems might arise in the future and assists in planning for necessary actions.
This decision becomes final if parents do not object within a two month period.
This discussion concerns issues regarding sharing the genetic test result with health providers and/or interested family members, currently or in the future.
This document suggested the need for major educational reform for a variety of reasons, ranging from serious economic concerns due to a loss of students from State to private schools, to the changing nature of work for children leaving school in the future.
This downturn was the first in seven years of uninterrupted growth.
This exercise really made me think about exactly how much I would need and how inflation and tax would affect that target figure in the future.
This fits Moeller’s approach of investing in the future while reducing costs today.
This goal should be possible within about 10 years with adequate funding, which I estimate at no more than US$100 million per year.
This greatly accelerates software development, and allows other programmers to maintain the codebase in the future.
This includes the decision to change professions and follow my dream, it includes my choice in the future for the area of medicine that I will focus on.
This includes the shares acquired in the 6 month period preceding the announcement date.
This increased exposure should result in higher sales in the years ahead.
This indicates that in the future, the Communist China will destroy Taiwan!
This is a compilation album of recordings that Cuomo made in 15 years from 92-07 with 18 tracks.
This is a good thing since 50% of the population is less than 20 years old, and a lot of young people will enter the work force in the next 10 years.
This is a medium term project which is contracted to be completed in three years.
This is a multi-billion dollar issue that will reportedly raise District sewer rates 2-3X in the years ahead.
This is a reminder to all students in grades 9-12 that the Curriculum Summary Sheet for planning the student's classes for upcoming year is due July 16.
This is a spectacularly high percentage for world oil depletion for it suggests that, without lots of new drilling, world oil production would be down to fraction of current output in a decade or so.
This is a time of the year to not only give thanks, but to make new resolutions for the upcoming year.
This is a time to renew your faith in yourself and in the future of this day.
This is a tool in which you write down anything you can remember about a given dream, so you can easily recall it in the future.
This is a very common issue for many parents as the time comes when the child is first born that the thought process tends to be dulled in many ways.
This is an entirely different matter, but I urge you, with the development of products with a guarantee of repayment, which requires little effort and input from you as possible, and may be proved by an extension of the penis within 2 months after the expedition to start coming.
This is an excellent opportunity for those with the desire to achieve results by hard work and who wish to participate in the future of a progressive organisation.
This is an issue that has to be faced sometime in the future,” he said.
This is an option I will look at in the future and when I am set up properly to make sales.
This is another indication that Billabong will face a strong competition with Quiksilver in the future (Quiksilver Delivers on Time, Every Time with Lawson, 2007).
This is because they are an agricultural society, so they need good harvest when the time comes.
This is decided by the F1 autographs collector, who determines to collect those autographs, which according to him would have a great value in the future.
This is explained to mean knowledge of things terrible in the future.
This is going to change in the future.
This is how cancer treatment will evolve in the future.
This is illustrated by a gentleman named Richard who informs the author, Sasha, he is in the process of corresponding with three other women and will choose his favorite in a few months.
This is in many ways one of the most painful blog posts I could write, because it is about a service that is the closest anyone has come in 4 years to the "software as a service platform" I would like to create.
This is intended to be a long term collaborations because we will need such services for more projects in the future.
This is its first major upgrade in several years.
This is just a common sense guide that may be expanded in the future for greater detail.
This is necessary to sustain an 8% GDP growth rate in the future.
This is not an atavistic attempt to get education to abandon the thrust of the modern world, only to say that to over-invest in the future of "desk" and business skills as a trade-off for practical manual landsman skills is costing us not only our economic and ecosystem security, but our daily reenergizing connection to the earth, which brought us forth.
This is not going to be undone in a year.
This is not something I want to watch again in the future.
This is not the same as when they use a song you used to love, and play it until you hate it - like what Cadillac did to Led Zeppelin a few years back (as if any Cadillac driver listens to Zeppelin).
This is pretty powerful in the future if you expect enterprises to adopt android en masse, publishing their internal applications without having the whole world see it and rate it and post spam on its comments.
This is probably how he can hire his buddies, maybe somebody will get in touch with the feds, inquire about the grant and have them look into it in the next two months!
This is second time in five months that the extended Singh family has donated eyes.
This is something in the future for me.
This is something that will be changing in the future on earth.
This is something that will be heard about more and more in the future.
This is something that will be provided to us in the future expansion of our awareness and information to be received as energy from our ancient ascension astronauts.
This is the first product that I have tried that is a non-prescription and my kp is completly gone for the first time in 19 years and it actually moisterized my skin.
This is the first thing that we need to do — I mean in the next year or two.
This is the first time i come here,and I'm glad to know other friends in our group.
This is the first time in 17 years of working in rice that I’ve had any water-seeded fields.
This is the first time in five years that Israel has attacked Syrian positions in Lebanon.
This is the first time the painting has come to Korea in 13 years, its first ever display here being at the Hoam Art Museum in 1996.
This is the fourth release for On Fillmore - rhythm section duo Glenn Kotche and Darin Gray - a partnership that has gained a great deal of respect in the 10 years since they came up with the idea (at a Meltdown festival in London).
This is the second time in 4 years that Montgomery County authorities have arrested the Mastronardo brothers for running a sports betting operation.
This is the stuff they will be using in the next few years, but it is here.
This is too bad because it was the initial segment, only a few years in the future, that I found most interesting.
This is usually calculated once in 6 months!
This is usually carried away after birth but makes them vulnerable to type 2 diabetes in the years ahead.
This is visually compeling when one considers the nearly ten trillion borrowed, printed out of thin air and spent, budgeted or guaranteed in six months (10/2008-3/2009) by the Fed and our Government.
This is what each artist experiences as they hold the pieces which someday will be someone else's treasure, and why they are here for you.
This is what we shall be changing in the future.
This is where cat-time comes in.
This is why I created the “Proud to be a Furry” buttons in the first place: as long as we hold true to the idea that furries are awesome, happy people and that being furry is a fine thing, instead of hiding and letting the dickweeds define us with distortions and outright lies, the people whose company are worth the time will come to us.
This is why money is actually debt; it's simply a promise to deliver some service or product (aka value) in the future.
This isn't that far off, in fact an MP3 player being replaced by a cell phone is considered possible within 5 years according to most technical websites.
This isnt goodbye because we will be back to visit in the future.
This kind of credit profile will give you the best score and make your life easy when it comes to credit in the future.
This leads me to believe that she is the right woman for the job to assist in the future in the United States of America (http://maps.
This leads to sever complications in the future and affects the individual's confidence.
This leaves any issue of discrepancy and misunderstanding in the future.
This leaves him battling for the centre midfield position with Cristiano Ronaldo, Van Der Vaart, Lassana & Mahamadou Diarra, Xabi Alonso, Sami Khediera and in 6 months time, Kaka.
This little trip had done me so much good physically, although at times I thought I would surely croak, I guess I will have to continue in the future and not let all this walking and climbing go to waste.
This location may require several days of searching in the future to find the good stuff.
This loss is in addition to the long term impact of those not wanting to come to this event in the future, fearing they will be turned away with no notice.
This makes me optimistic that if you buy a Pandigital Novel in three months, you’ll find the overall experience much more user-friendly than I did.
This manner, you don’t have to fret if the payment time comes and you do not have money yet.
This marked the second time in six months that the community blocked the rails in defence of their land.
This marks the first decline in 4 years and some see this as a sign that the foreclosure crisis has seen its worst.
This may be fixed someday but I have to do the input to point the computer in the right direction.
This may change in the future, however, if a pro-motility agent as effective as Cisapride was but without it's drug-interactions or the side effects of Reglan can be found.
This may come in handy someday.
This may save you many thousands of dollars in having to restructure finance in the future!
This means that a client who receives a negative rapid test result is almost assuredly not infected, barring recent exposures (sexual contact or needle sharing with an infected person within 3 months).
This means that a non-16x9 THX certified disc (like, for example, Die Hard), will look great on a 4x3 TV for now, but will look like crap on a high-definition set in ten years.
This means that in ten years' time, the amount of electricity coming from sources like wind, wave, solar and geothermal energy will be about equal to Australia's current household electricity use" said Senator Wong.
This means that the number of our grandchildren has tripled in one year!
This means that user can render smoke, fire, temperature, velocity, or any other channel that might become available in the future, using customizable color gradients.
This means that what worked in the past may not work in the future, thus requiring revisions in how a product is marketed.
This means that you’ll probably start to lose weight quite quickly, but your metabolism will slow down and this could cause problems for you in the future, such as weight gain.
This new Office must be established within six months after the legislation went into effect — which means that this Office will have to be up and running in a matter of months.
This new default theme has been a long time coming and is also installed with any new installation of WordPress fo self-hosted sites too.
This new partnership on closing the gap will set concrete targets for the future: within a decade to halve the widening gap in literacy, numeracy and employment outcomes and opportunities for Indigenous children, within a decade to halve the appalling gap in infant mortality rates between Indigenous and non-Indigenous children and, within a generation, to close the equally appalling 17-year life gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous when it comes to overall life expectancy.
This new post  on the Tapestry blog provides both a chance to take stock of what’s transpired in five years, and also words of hard-earned wisdom for churches and individuals new to adoption, foster and global orphan ministry.
This one put the probabilities at 70% of a major quake that will strike along the San Andreas in the next 30 years.
This paper argues that, although a number of key indicators suggest that there has been an improvement in the employment situation in the 12 months to June 1999, an analysis of the detail behind the figures shows that the employment situation is not as positive as it first appears.
This past summer, we had one child that learned eight signs and four words in a two month period from June - July.
This percentage has not changed in 15 years.
This phase of the business in invaluable to you when the time comes to expand and hire workers.
This post could develop into a Head of Department role position within 2 years so it's a clear opportunity to fast track your career.
This program goal is to build confidence and mathematical power that all children need to succeed in mathematics in the real world -- now and in the future.
This program helped me obtain an 18 month consulting agreement with a multinational company worth over six figures!
This program is offered in 12 monthly sessions of Masters Swimming each year.
This program provides free use of their city-wide, recreation centre facilities for up to 40 visits within one year’s time.
This report is not about whether a particular company or industry has performed well or poorly in the past or will do so in the future.
This report is to analyze how current business environment and the acquisition impact on Billabong, as well as providing a realistic strategic planning in the future recommendation and evaluation.
This research builds a foundation to identify genetic markers that will more accurately diagnose and predict the course of CTCL that, in the future, may help guide clinicians weighing treatment options for their patients.
This scared Galton, seeing this change as a threat to humanity as he believed that it meant there would be more lower class citizens in the future, thus decreasing the average level of society.
This scholarship supports the education of collegiate students who may become Certified Fraud Examiners (CFEs) in the future.
This scientific theft moves into the tragic realm with the second fact -the "Dark Lady" was stricken with ovarian cancer and died within several years of her discovery - allowing this personal betrayal to go without answer.
This sector is estimated to create 50,000 jobs per year in the next five years.
This seems almost too good to be true, and as a matter of fact, I personally wouldn’t recommend losing 9 pounds in a month because it’s too fast.
This should be a huge positive for the stock in the years ahead -- as institutions catch on to the company's impressive growth story, they're likely to start buying up shares.
This should be fixed in the future.
This silent, battery-driven and environment friendly ride-on lawn mower, could become a reality within five years for amenity use.
This site manager contract will run in 3 month blocks and the project is due to run for circa 40 weeks with which you will be required for the full duration.
This source water assessment will be completed in three years.
This step should enable the authorities to oust the nearly 300 camps of Roma illegals in the country within the next three months.
This structure fulfills the Indian prophecy that "Someday, on the east end of the Island, a great tepee will be erected.
This time will come again: those who are not prepared should bide their time; those who hold the throne should beware.
This told me something about what the buyers were looking for and what in the future should be on my list for buying.
This too will happen in the future.
This tool will help you stay organized and plan for your upcoming time away from the office.
This treatment of advertising reduces the company’s reported profit and therefore limits the number of new product launches a company can undertake in any one year.
This update has been a long time coming -- almost four years -- and the objectives for it can be found by signing up here  .
This victory did not last long, within three years King John was dead, and his successor did not hold his tolerant views.
This video is nearly 10 minutes long (sorry, we’ll aim for shorter ones in the future), but shows a full process for making a delicious, spicy nut dip.
This was Facebook's longest outage in about 4 years and was the result of the database being overwhelmed by requests.
This was a game that the two of them played ever since they started dating and since she moved in four months earlier, it had progressed into a daily thing.
This was a great achievement within two years of the inauguration of SCCI.
This was a long time coming with no good reason for the delay.
This was a short-lived stay but, after relegation in 1976, they were back up again two years later for a longer, eight year spell.
This was down three percent from the first quarter of 2006 but the second highest first quarter estimated footage drilled in two decades, right behind last year’s first quarter.
This was my first trip to Spring Grove in my two years of living in Cincinnati, so I spent much of my day here.
This was one of the task that I want to work with in the future.
This was the end of Caius, after he had reigned four years, within four months.
This was the first UCI World Cup held in the US in five years and the small, quaint Americana town of Windham, New York rolled out the red carpet for us.
This was the first time I visited the majority of my family in 7 years.
This was the first time in my 42 years that I completely understood why I spent my whole life feeling unhappy.
This was the second forward split of CRWE’s common stock in three years.
This way you only send your registration information to the developer to be able to restore it in the future.
This way, in one month they might buy 14 tonnes, the next 18 tonnes the next 6 tonnes and so on.
This way, they will gradually relieve international forces of the duty Afghans consider as theirs to defend Afghanistan now and in the future.
This week Vic Wisemann looks at what we can be thankful for as this turbulent year comes to a close.
This whole ordeal is as unique as any that I’ve seen in 15 years covering the game, the team and the league.
This will assist all of us dealing with the facts of who we are and how we can make the world, a better place in the future with our marketing and manufacturing of products traded around the world.
This will be improved in the future.
This will be revealed in the future.
This will be the first reunion of all the Bathmans in one place in 25 years.
This will change in the future.
This will ensure knowledge and quantification of conservation threats will be able to evolve in the future.
This will happen in the next few months.
This will make for good entertainment at some point in the future, though right now there is nothing funny about the recent turn of events.
This will most likely mean that by simply making a few dietary and lifestyle changes you will be able to keep your rectum healthy and strong and avoid having this hemorrhoid problem in the future.
This will prevent clogs in the future.
This will prevent issues with spaces/special characters in the future.
This will probably be something I buy for friends' baby showers in the future.
This would allow you to largely avoid the recurrence of strictures in the future.
This year comes with the aim to revive sales, attract new.
This year marks only the fourth time in 22 years that the total amount of dollars spent by U.
This year, the Merchants will be established in 16 cities in 17 private banking center, the number of customers within the next three years and double the size of assets under management.
This young actress is going places with no limits and her career would be definite successful in the future.
This, sadly, isn’t too unusual in Kazakhstan, and I think I’ll have a few battles in the future when it comes to insisting that Anna is able to use her car seat over here when we get a lift.
Thomas Pynchon has a new 1,085-page novel out–Against the Day  –his first book in nine years.
Thomas even set a goal for his marketing director: Sign up 40 new members in a month.
Thompson and his colleagues retrieved six cores from the mountain two years ago after his team spent more than a month camped at a drill site above 19,300 feet.
Those (not so smart) schools of fish (the planets staple ocean bearing food source) are in rapid decline and with any luck, could be wiped out within the next decade!
Those 14 pending in a six month span outpace the prior year which saw 12 going pending in a 12 month period.
Those actions combined together led to higher productivity and realization of doing certain things wrong, which in turn made possible to make them right in the future.
Those of the factors are the opportunity to growth up in the future.
Those of you who are good at public speaking could work up a nice 45-minute talk: Why the world seems suddenly upside-down -- and how it's been a long time coming.
Those peoplr are really going to reconsider their wardrobe selections in the future, I guess.
Those who are separate and do not agree with the critical masses when time comes to leave earth will experience another lifetime on earth that may or not be superior and beneficial.
Though I doubt I’ll have the time to sit down and write proper reviews (something I will no doubt do later in the future), my plan is to write little mini-reviews on the novel – an on the go review of what I’ve read, as I’m reading it!
Though estimates vary, the general expectation is that the industry should grow significantly in the next few years.
Though he once won 10 college hoops national titles in 12 years, he was even more beloved away from the game.
Though it may require a bit more work upfront, this home-selling technique may prove to be a desirable method for your real estate transactions, both now and in the future.
Though it only has 3 lenses to start with, we  have more that will be posted  there in the months ahead.
Though set twenty years in the future, the game is still grounded in realism (if a slightly exaggerated realism -- still gotta have fun!
Though that may be good news for those lucky enough to purchase a home in the next few months, this phenomenon will not continue long-term.
Though the Blaugrana faced the impossible task of measuring up to the expectations set upon them after winning a unprecedented six trophies in one year, the club continued to set the bar around the world for the beautiful game.
Though this whopping talk time is offered in case of 2G network, the figures for 3G are equally impressive, as the talk time comes out to 4 hours and 50 minutes.
Though, if a 90's Golfer improves 12 strokes in not 3 months, not 2 months, but less than a month - maybe what they thought was their weakest link wasn't.
Thoughts and actions which, when detected, mean certain death are not formally forbidden, and the endless purges, arrests, tortures, imprisonments, and vaporizations are not inflicted as punishment for crimes which have actually been committed, but are merely the wiping-out of persons who might perhaps commit a crime at some time in the future.
Thousand of South Korean fans feels discomfort as they watched North Korea’s 7-0 defeat by Portugal that eliminated the communist country from its first World Cup appearance in 44 years.
Thousands of youths sign up to read Bible in one year  (/article/thousands.
Three additional failures ( a total of 9 failures) of the same test(s) after the 90 day waiting period will result in a one year waiting period from date of last fail.
Three ethical model garment factories are in development in Bangladesh, with construction of three more in other regions planned for in the next few months.
Through all the hoopla concerning home refinance  this year, you're possible wondering, as a homeowner, if you ought to think refinancing your own mortgage, and what the expected mortgage rates would be for the upcoming year.
Through discussion, it transpired that this was the first time in ten years of teaching that Ti had videotaped one of her lessons.
Through innovative partnerships, education, training, volunteerism and internship opportunities, Family Central is working hard to ensure that every family and child succeeds, now and in the future.
Through the intercession of John Paul II and the prayers of the blessed Virgin Mary, may many young people in this Diocese of Bridgeport hear and respond to the call of the Good Shepherdto dedicate themselves to God's purposes by becoming good, holy priests and religious now and in the future.
Through the leadership of professional staff members trained in their respective disciplines, efficiently administered policies and procedures, and excellence in the delivery of services and programs offered to students, the Division of Student Development plays a critical role in the future of Cazenovia College and the lives of its students, faculty and staff.
Throughout the day, the celebration highlighted the fact that, in six decades, New China had evolved from a war-torn, economically devastated "failed state" into the world’s third-largest economy.
Throughout the year ahead, may tranquility, abundance and joy be yours.
Throw in 6000 years of history, a wealth of archaeological and historical monuments and the comfort of five-star deluxe accommodation and you start to get .
Thrown to wolves that have not eaten in a month.
Thursday we spent the day excavating a giant fish with Mike Everhart, currently identified as Protosphyraena gladius, however that seems likely to change in the next few years.
Thus Turkey and the Church were plunged into darkness within 200 years.
Thus is you have a WPThemes domain selling themes, but a @WordPressThemes twitter account or facebook page, you might be in violation in the future.
Thus the centennial theme of “UP: Excellence, Service, and Leadership in the Next 100 Years” can be achieved in each UP student.
Thus within two years of the launch of the Community Fund I Project, more than half of the goal of US$9,000 that is to become the eventual asset value of the Fund, has been saved.
Thus, InSITE Companies receive even more feedback and potentially establish connections for funding in the future.
Thus, if there is no slowing of emission rates, the human-made climate forcing could increase by 2 W/m2 in the next 50 years.
Tim DaGiau, a full time college student at CSU is hoping to attend law school someday.
Tim and I reflected on the traction that MPS gained in 2010, and then talked about what he expects to drive additional growth to come in upcoming months.
Time comes when through discipline of the circumstances of daily life the soul gains a little.
Titanium Muscle Gain TM 3 Months Supply, Professional and Recreational Muscle Building, body building (1-3760931-B002Z371IE-Titanium_Muscle_Gain_TM_3_Months_Supply_Professional_and_Recreational_Muscle_Building_body_building.
Titanium Muscle Gain TM 3 Months Supply, Professional and Recreational Muscle Building, body building (javascript:void(0)) Brand:TITANIUM MUSCLE GAIN (1-3760931-TITANIUM+MUSCLE+GAIN-Brand-sr-1.
Titus based her comments on results from a Robert Half survey that asked large firms and corporations about staffing needs in the next 12 months.
To a question on her comments that she would get married in two years, Katrina said, "I don't know why I said that.
To achieve 50+% compounded annual growth, I plan to start a hedge fund, possibly within the next year.
To anyone who hasn’t lived and breathed the feinbild of India as the enemy for decades, as all generals have, the problem is straightforward: the conception of India as an incorrigible, recidivist foe who can never be trusted in matters big and small has hurt us in the past, and, given the present trajectories of the two countries, will hurt us even more in the future.
To automatically receive occasional mailings describing the upcoming monthly meeting topic and other DMA® news, send the message subscribe dma-announce to majordomo@dma.
To be approached by regular work in the future, please fill in our online translator application form  .
To be sure, the research so far is not conclusive, and the picture won't become clearer until long-term studies emerge in the future.
To begin with, the bookstore will only sell Melville titles, but Johnson said they may stock other publishers’ books in conjunction with events in the future.
To begin, select a basic account because you can always upgrade should you decide to in the future.
To continue to be a leader – I will be leaving the military someday.
To develop the Center's programming, each member of the Workforce Development Board invited 10 employers to take part in small focus groups to identify the kinds of jobs that are available in the region and who would most likely be hiring in the future.
To fit the vacation within your budget, Martindell recommends asking the right question: What will we remember in 10 years?
To hear my IN-DEPTH, LONG-TERM AUDIO FORECAST for YOUR LIFE in the next six months  , simply log in through the main page, and then click on the link "Long Term Forecast for Second Half of 2007.
To help employees become financially secure in the future, the district offers several retirement and savings programs such as Teacher Retirement System of Texas (TRS) Pension Plan, 403(b) Tax-Sheltered Annuity, 457(b) S.
To help you meet this challenge, I have introduced a structured 3 months group coaching program which holds participants by the hand what exactly to do each week and hold them accountable to make money within the 3 months period.
To his amazement, because he hasn’t bought a boat in a few years, I say “no problem.
To maintain standing as a Certified Centered Riding Instructor, dues must be paid annually and the Instructor must participate in an Instructor Update clinic within two years of the completion of the course and then in accordance with the update policies.
To me that middle ground would look something like this: people would remember the atrocities to honor the memories of those who fell victim and also to recognize the “early warning signs” and prevent such horrors from happening in the future.
To meet this challenge head on, the recruiting teams I'm working with wanted to figure out how to double their monthly production within six months.
To obtain credit, the quiz must be completed and returned for scoring within 24 months of publication date.
To prepare for when we go to Mars in the next decade.
To prevent nuclear weapons from falling into the hands of terrorists, the Security Council endorsed our global effort to lock down all vulnerable material within four years.
To produce six pounds of rice in a month, Joe must work two hours a day.
To reach a level of doubling the NIH budget in ten years would require a 7.
To stay healthy, you must fully understand your current health status as well as your risk of developing diseases in the future.
To the extent there is a problem, it lies in the fact that any country with a fully developed nuclear power program could probably build a bomb in six months to a year.
To the point that within 200 years the world was a different place.
To them, the doors of the Kingdom of God, both in the present and in the future, are closed.
To this end, we continue to work bilaterally as well as through the EU, with key countries that either already provide us with gas and oil, or have the potential to do so in the future.
To those of you that chose the option of no AC, I guess most of the rest of us may choose that option in the future.
To within three years, when was James Arness born?
Today in Midland, Dow unveiled a new solar shingle roof system that is going into testing and limited release, and should be available to homebuilders on a mass commercial scale within the next two years.
Today the Laughing Gull is increasing in much of its range; for example, they have recently nested in New York State for the first time in 100 years.
Today's Flash is lightyears ahead of anything it was ten years ago.
Today, everyone is concerned as to what happens in the future.
Today, he talks about 12 hours of free power forgetting that he hiked power tariff eight times in nine years of his rule,” he said amidst whistles and applause.
Today’s technology (my patents) is light years ahead of R&D conducted in 60’s thru early 80’s.
Tompkins died in 1914, and in 1917, the company which bore his name was dissolved, and within a few years, company properties were sold by the heirs of various investors.
Too many of our children are obese, leading to health problems now and in the future.
Topic: How can I lose 25-30 pounds in a month?
Torture Memos: Detainee Forced To Eat At Cracker Barrel 83 Times In One Month (.
Tourism Minister Sheila McHale said the seven-day Australian Tourism Exchange (ATE), at the Perth Convention Exhibition Centre, was the second time in three years WA would stage the event.
Town employees have not had increases in 3 years.
Town of Camp Verde, we are disappointed in your lack of judgment; please do not forget in the future.
Trade between Bangladesh and Korea has crossed the $1 billion mark in eight months of the current year thanks to the growth of both countries’ exports to each other.
Trade debtors Trade Debtors, bills receivable and amounts recoverable on contracts due within one year.
Trade with Korea crosses $1b in eight months (/index.
Trading Ted Lilly to a contender might help the Dodgers in the future, but it doesn’t appear that Ned can plan for the future.
Traditional sharing should be the driving principles of board interaction in the future attempts to eliminate poverty in Wisconsin's Northwoods.
Training is our investment in the future.
Transfers into certain trusts within 60 months of your Medicaid application also will also cause a period of ineligibility.
Treasury notes that mature in 3 years now yield 3.
Treat it as a benchmark and review it in 12 months based on improvements you introduce during the year.
Trees on Fire, voted “Greenest Regional Band” by Blue Ridge Outdoors Magazine, has raised awareness and funds for a number of organizations in their four years of existence.
Trevor – It’s awesome, it’s been a long time coming now.
Trilene XT (I'm pretty sure, haven't used the pole in a year or so), #6 wide gap hook, and tossing minnows on a slip bobber, I hooked up with a big fish.
True that I have moved twice since I bought it, but otherwise it's barely been moved in that ten years.
True_Liberal: that type of argument works better if you can show that the substitute for R-12 and R-22 has a patent expiration in the future.
Trumpeter Shurlock: Elandslaagte also produced a national hero in 14 year old bugler John Shurlock who grabbed a revolver and shot three Boers dead (right with pistol and bugle).
Try this Forex Auto Money  and be Financial Free in 6 Months!
Try to imagine yourself in a day when you have just fetched your kids from school and upon arriving at home, you change roles immediately, becoming a modeling agent for kids who are aspiring to someday become top models on their own.
Tsai regarding this in the future.
Tuesday, home prices, their first increase in three years.
Twelve Unlimiteds are expected to be in Madison this weekend, the most the race has fielded in 20 years, and nearly every one of them is a contender.
Twenty RMB a day X 30 days in a month = 600 RMB a month.
Two NSW Independent MPs, Rob Oakeshott and Tony Windsor, have backed Prime Minister Julia Gillards Labor party to form the government, thereby giving her party a one-seat majority, two weeks after elections produced the first hung parliament in 70 years.
Two academic sessions in a year.
Two certificates of deposit (CD) were purchased on December 22, 1994, one for $23,000 to mature in twelve months and the other for $12,000 to mature in 24 months.
Two long­stand­ing Labor govts will also be reduced to dust and oppo­si­tion within the next year, because of the total fail­ure of key govt bureacra­cies to pro­duce the goods.
Two of our three advanced patients died within two months of our treatment ceasing.
Two of the best games I've played all year come out this week.
Two of these skills will become very important in the future and the other useful filler.
Two weeks ago, he told the Jordanian A Dustour, that while he prefers negotiations for now, he does not exclude an alternative option in the future.
Two world wars in only 30 years had ravaged the British economy and the pound sterling.
Two years ago Health & Effieciency had the idea that if every nudist converts one textile a year and then every new nudist converts one textile a year and so on, there will be a Malthusian progression so that the entire population of the UK will be nudist in 10 years.
Two years ago I would have been happy to get600 hitsin a month.
Two-thirds of Canadian Office and Professional Employees (COPE) Local 219 members voted last week to reject a company proposal to reopen their collective agreement six months ahead of schedule.
Typically hire purchase obligations, leases, factoring advances, stocking loans, debentures, mortgages, capital creditors, amounts due to group and directors within one year.
Typically, these nerves do grow back, and sensitivity returns to reasonably normal levels within several months of treatment.
U> So do you think you'll be able to pass the Turing test someday?
U> in the future you will be able to!
UGG Classic Tall Boots  on sale is rapidly becoming a fashion in 10 years.
UPDATED: “Iran expects the United States to launch a military strike on ‘at least two countries” in the Middle East in the next three months, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad told state-run Press TV,” reports Reuters  .
US TREASURY DEPARTMENT issuing solar grants equal to 30% of the Cost of commercial Solar Projects Started in next two years For corporate commercial solar hot water projects started during 2009 and 2010, solar projects that are eligible for depreciation or amortizatio .
USA Men  kept the momentum from their FIVB World League triumph in Rio in July 2008 in their run to the gold-medal match, where they beat 2004 Athens champions Brazil for their first Olympic title in 20 years.
USCIS notes that, in the future, if it is able to ensure R-1 visa petitions can be adequately adjudicated in 15 days, the premium processing service for this visa category will again be made active.
USGPRU officials said this was the first fatality in the series in nine years.
Ugg Classic Cardy Boots  almost all of the candidates pledged to complete the project within two years.
Ultimately, in the 9 month period from January 1999 to September 1999, Tiller averaged 5 post-viable partial birth abortions per week.
Ummmm (-___-') Shes not at all pretty, but she is cute like most girls her age, but in a few years when she starts to look like her mum and that that cuteness wear off.
Uncovering the appropriate loan or I need a loan fast, means balancing your own mortgage options as well as your housing requirements, at the moment as well as in the future.
Under Lyndon Johnson there was lively competition for administrative men who would in two years have made a million working for the Establishment.
Under Title IX, students may file a complaint with the Civil Rights Division of the Oregon Bureau of Labor and Industries within one year of the alleged discrimination or harassment or with the Office of Civil Rights in Seattle within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination or harassment.
Under an Administration that has already spent more in 9 months than President Clinton did in his entire 8 years in office, such a proposal should be roundly rejected for adding billions more to the deficit and failing to put patients first by all but guaranteeing rationed care for seniors and the poor.
Under her supervision I was able to complete the first grade in two and a half months, the second and third grades in six months each, and each grade from fourth through eighth in eight months each.
Under the model, the bidder/developer can pay the plot amount over a span of a few years instead of within three months of getting the allotment letter.
Understand trends in our society and how they help you predict the products which are or will be in demand, now and in the future.
Understanding frame data (will be in the ‘mechanics’ section in the future) will also help when trying to determine if X move is a good move to use in a certain situation or not.
Understanding how to apply your skills to a wide range of technological and business functions will become even more critical in the future, as IT pros increasingly are expected to partner with business leaders on corporate projects.
Underwater archaeologist Dr Jon Henderson, from The University of Nottingham, will be the first archaeologist to have official access to the site in 40 years.
Unfortunately this upcoming year 2005 will be the last time we will be able to hold our week of fun and learning in April at Zzyzx because of the needs of the universities that own the site and their students.
Unfortunately, many students get to law firms and regret their choice-for a job with starting salaries of 165k a year, firm attrition rates are startlingly high, with 40% of young associates leaving the firm within 3 years, and 62% by the end of their fourth.
Unfortunately, with the growth of this popular pastime comes the pe.
Universal Orlando posts first attendance increase in two years (/news/11954/universal-orlando-posts-first-attendance-increase-in-two-years.
Unless USER ask us not to, we may contact USER in the future to tell USER about specials, new products or services, or changes to this privacy policy.
Unless explicitly stated otherwise, any new features or services that augment or enhance the Service in the future shall be considered part of the Service and subject to these TOU.
Unless it takes any ugly turn and if it is taken care of well, this skin condition may vanish within a few months.
Unless new agreements are drafted carefully, and existing agreements reviewed regularly, they may contain time bombs which could cause severe financial or legal difficulties for the company or the director in the future.
Unless we act, within a decade, one out of every five dollars we earn will be spent on health care.
Unless you ask us not to, we may contact you via email in the future to tell you about specials, new products or services, or changes to this privacy policy.
Unlike solar-electric which will never pay back in its current state of development, wind turbines can recover investment costs in eight years or less, and provide absolutely free electricity for 40 or more .
Unseen, she kissed him and smiling sweetly, she rose into the golden clouds with the daughters of the air and she whispered joyfully: "In three hundred years, I shall join my prince again in Heaven.
Until that time comes, you can use this technology at a very reasonable set-up cost.
Up and coming careers in the next ten years (.
Upon arriving back to woman’s home, gentleman tells woman how he enjoys her company, asks for another date in the future and gives woman kiss on cheek.
Upon conclusion of the liquidation, the liquidator shall prepare a report on results of the liquidation and the account of receipts and expenditure for submission to the meeting of shareholders for approval within four months from the date of the liquidation conclusion.
Upon diagnosis, approximately 16% of patients with RA have foot involvement [3 (#B3) ], in 15% of cases the forefoot is the first area of the body to become symptomatic [4 (#B4) ], and virtually 100% of patients report foot problems within 10 years of RA onset [5 (#B5) ].
Uranium mining has usually been done in the arid and sparsely populated areas of the west, but the Southside region receives on the average of 44 inches of rain a year.
Use our employee stock option analysis services to find out the fair value of your options right now and make projections to see what they should be worth in the future.
Use you hand gently, but it is exceedingly rare for someone to be able to open their incision (has happened four times in 20 years, but only due to falling on the hand!
Use “self-assessment” to study more about why you messed up and find out how to better manage your weight reduction in the future.
Users who see your banner ad are more likely to remember your company name and are more likely to buy your product or service in the future - even if they don't click through to your website.
Using annual operating budgets and reserve budgets assist in reflecting the plans and goals of the association as well as in setting the level and quality of service for the community association's activities in the months and years ahead.
Using of only 0,0125% could provide all global energy needs today, and the use of 0,5% can fully cover the needs in the future.
Using your PIN only when absolutely necessary may go a long way towards combating this type of fraud that could potentially become much more prevalent in the future.
Usually international exchange rates are settled in the future which necessitates the need of extensive study and in-depth analysis to ensure accurate prediction.
Usually, exploders are carried on their excitement, and they are not ready to lead their converts when the time comes.
VH1: It's surprising to think that this is your first major tour in eight years.
VIENNA: Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries need to wean themselves from oil revenues in the future, OPEC chief Abdalla El-Badri said yesterday ahead of the group's 50th a.
VP Collins pledged his support to the Equity/Civil Rights Committee in the future.
VSNL, part of the Tata industrial group, has transformed itself in five years from being the state-owned monopoly international gateway to India into a company with a global wholesale network and a developing broadband interest at home.
Vanderbilt: The Commodores are coming off their first bowl win in 53 years.
Variable rate loans usually have much lower interest rates to compensate for the risk the borrower accepts that interest rates will rise in the future.
Variety of cases -- she has seen and treated a much greater variety of patients than most or her classmates in the 2 years since graduation.
Various Jewish organizations are looking at projects to underwrite in the future and developing public relations strategies Jewish Americans to giving Jewish Federation funds to Arab causes.
Vehicles that roll into dealerships next month come with a choice of two V6 engines: a 255-horsepower 3.
Verdane CEO Bjarne Lie said, “In our seven year history, we have never seen stronger dealflow than we do right now.
Vernon has been partially demolished to accommodate the four-lane construction of the road with more planned demolition in the future.
Very excited to see what his theatre company does in the future.
Viceroy cigarette Company was born in 1936 year in USA and produced at the beginning of its activity world’s first cork-tipped filter cigarette.
Victory Motorcycles, established in 1998 and representing the first all-new American-made motorcycle from a major company in nearly 60 years, are rapidly making impressive in-roads into the cruiser and touring motorcycle marketplace.
Videohub makes it easy to run Standard Definition and High Definition equipment now and add 3 Gb/s SDI equipment in the future.
Vision: An idealized view of a desirable and potentially achievable future state where or what an organization would like to be in the future.
Visit travel book stores and ask if there are any talks happening in the future of people who have traveled abroad or are preparing a group of people to travel.
Vitiligo in 6 month old infant - Is vitiligo treatable?
Vocalist Marc Storace has kept the band alive with a rotating cast of characters for years but now, for the first time in 28 years, Krokus is Storace joined by guitarists Fernado von Arb and Mark Kohler, bass player Chris von Rohr and drummer Freddy “Steady” Frutig.
Voytas expects the technology to be implemented in two crops within the next two years.
WA uranium mine working within three years (/?
WASHINGTON (AFNS) -- President Barack Obama presented the Medal of Honor for conspicuous gallantry to the family of an Air Force chief master sergeant killed in action 42 years ago in Laos during a ceremony Sept.
WASHINGTON - Employers worried about recession slashed 80,000 jobs in March, the most in five years and the third straight month of losses.
WASHINGTON — In the two years before the Sept.
WERE ALL GONNA QUIT SOMEDAY AND TODAY IS THE DAY CHINSETAKOUT IS GOING TO QUIT SO LET HIM.
WFMK's John Robinson talks about this week's CD releases (and there are a lot), including the first new album from Heart in 6 years!
WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE DOING IN FIVE YEARS?
Wait until your precious shiny armor becomes the same color in ten years!
Walker: If you mirror it on other basins, I think all players have a part to play in the future of the province, and that will evolve over time.
Wanjohi reported on his research on the Special Collection of Kikuyu (Kenya) proverbs which will be printed in two month time with the title: Under One Roof: Kikuyu Proverbs Consolidated.
Wanna someday produce and own my own record company, bringing out many real and undiscovered musical artists.
Want to learn italian and german someday.
Wanted Civil Engineer diploma or degree holder with min 2 years of .
Wanted to link this interview I did at Comics Alliance  because I talk a lot about the comic and process of writing it, but also talk a little bit about format and how media might be changing in the next few years.
Warner Kraus of Buxton has concerns about how this property will be used in the future.
Warranty claims made within one year will not incur labor or shipping charges.
Warranty coverage covers the casing for three retreads when it has been inspected and retreaded by Bandag-certified retreaders within seven years from the date the tire was manufactured.
Warren Buffet’s approach is also very interesting, as he will be donating a very significant amount in 20 years, I believe it’s 20 years, right?
Was the silence we are seeing in Pellicano going to be rewarded by some of these people someday?
Was told I would be ok and would feel better within a month or two and get on with life, I live in N Yorkshire.
Washington set Morehouse's single-game (242 yards), single-season (1,198 yards) and career rushing records (3,699 yards) in four years playing for the Division II school.
Watch for 2011 information in a few months!
Watch the Video's to find out how to retire in 2 years.
Water is becoming a more valuable and scare resource; this has been speculated to accelerate in the future.
Water lovers had better plan on building smaller above-ground pools in the future.
Watson, who only managed eight Test matches in four years prior to the 2009 Ashes series, was thrown in the deep end with his country trailing England 1-0.
Wayne and Diane Mackey expect their electric bills will drop to near zero in the next year.
We Can't give you guys the details yet, but we will in the future, so stay tuned!
We WILL create many new millionaires within the next ten years!
We aim to develop the induction furnace within 2 years, with which we will be able to produce all tractor structure and components, minus the rubber parts, from scrap steel.
We all can assist in the future with accepting new ways of thinking about other intelligent beings in other galaxies.
We all have to go to court at 9:30 am in a month, where we will have to pay a small fine, or maybe, if we’re lucky, the summons will be dismissed.
We all know there are some tough times ahead, and so does Warren.
We all must ask ourselves what can be done to help prevent this wasteful tragedy happening in the future.
We allow customers to attain baritone monthly affordable payments to intend endorsement on their vehicle.
We allow them to opt out if they wish in the future.
We already have taken steps to avoid this particular problem in the future.
We also ask that your account be brought current within a 3 month time frame, by paying a portion of your past due balance in addition to your monthly Subscription fee.
We also reserve the right to use the funds from your account to pay any debt or amount owed whether now or in the future to the credit union, except for obligations secured by your residence, unless otherwise restricted by applicable law.
We also use cookies to help us compile aggregate data about site traffic and site interaction so that we can offer better site experiences and tools in the future.
We anticipate supply shortages and price increases within a few years.
We are 2 Seniors getting married in 2 months.
We are asking the community to invest in the future.
We are carried on his search for self, and along the way we hear echoes of all that has happened in the turbulent 50 years he's lived.
We are coming to a critical inflection point, perhaps the most critical point that we have had in 70 years for the US and to a great extent the global economy.
We are convinced that their dedication and entrepreneurial skills will continue to promote the DICOTA success story in the future.
We are currently booking shows for the upcoming months.
We are currently using their insights now to develop an exciting new platform and look forward to working them on additional projects in the future.
We are destined to someday share in the unimaginable adventure of ruling the universe with Christ.
We are going to be discussing the ins and outs of how the industry is going to evolve in the next decade in our Sept 8th event – Mobile Future Forward  which is bringing leading industry thought-leaders, inventors, and doers to brainstorm, discuss, and debate what’s next.
We are here to share in the future of all humankind.
We are in cooperation with Theresa Janette Thurmond Morris as the founder creator and all of the TJ Morris Friends who desire to become invested in the future as a venture.
We are in third place, and at current paces have several months to catch the top two shows; and my guess is we will pass them both within a month or two when we get close.
We are light years ahead of any autoimmune clinic in the world.
We are looking for Marketing executive for our Hr consultancy at Ahmedabad Experience : min 6 months experience, freshers can also apply.
We are looking forward to an exciting year ahead!
We are looking forward to have big events like this in the future.
We are looking forward to having an enhanced and expanded hotel product, as Disney’s Grand Californian Hotel & Spa development becomes a reality in the months ahead.
We are not to be discouraged when evil times come.
We are of course, always available to extend, or further develop the site, or to provide other services in the future.
We are proud of you and we believe in you, and in the future you represent!
We are pursuing opportunities that will make us all money, which may or may not require us to readdress this issue in the future.
We are storing more information and will seek enhancements in our outer being with various tools and apparatus of our own making and choosing in the future.
We are sure it will be a most “unpleasant” year for the small number of criminals and uniformed frauds who’ll get what’s coming to them in the next 12 months.
We are sure that these high quality generic medicines will meet the exacting standards you expect from us now and in the future.
We are working on redesigning the entire website within the next few months.
We aren’t too bad at acknowledging that there are possibilities in the future, but we are terrible at seeing the possibilities that existed in the past.
We can all assist each other to become more productive in the future as an entire species of intelligent beings who are coming to earth as one level of our process.
We can not continue these brilliant successes in the future, unless we continue to learn from the past.
We can say that we defend her because we know that only a society that recognizes her intrinsic dignity will recognize ours, and any society that treats her as a disposable commodity will someday treat us and our loved ones the same way.
We can, however, do something now so that we'll have little need in the future to think, "I should have.
We can’t put up windmills on our roofs, but I am sure that within five years there will be government-sponsored programs that will advertise "install a solar panel on your roof and get a rebate.
We certainly aim to continue to provide support for thousands more families in the future, and are always looking at how we can expand the help we offer.
We chose 300 miles in three months thinking that between the two of us we would only have to walk about three miles most days.
We couldn’t know these things and so we couldn’t accurately predict how they would affect FNM in the future (whether or not we now believe we could have).
We currently do not have a notification list (electronic or postal) but, in the future, we plan to add an elective list.
We debuted their new video for When My Time Comes yesterday  , the second single and perhaps most heart-stopping song on their debut record,North Hills.
We didn't dally for too long, since flight time was coming and we still had a stop to make.
We do believe that a time is coming when the people of the world in general will be Christians, a time when Satan will no longer be able to 'deceive the nations' (Rev.
We do intend to be upgrading the exercise bike section of this site quite extensively in the next few months (in addition to the regular bike, bike product and bike trails information on this site) so if you are looking for fitness equipment (exercise bikes, trainers, etc.
We do not currently list below-the-line credits, although we hope to include them in the future.
We don’t usually do things in ones but this chapter was a long time coming so it’s an exception.
We estimate this idea will reduce suffering and save millions of lives within a few years.
We expect more liabilities to be removed in the three months ending September 30, 2010.
We expect that the program could be available to Alberta families within the next few months.
We expect the Dow to fall another 90% against gold in the next few years.
We expect to have our 501c3 status in the future, thereby enabling us to receive and give grants.
We expect to see this absorbed completely within one year.
We express our strongest outrage at this state of affairs where (aside of a vague proposal that 1000 ³may² be able to return at some indefinite time in the future) the 6000 Joe Slovo residents have been threatened with imminent forced eviction to remote Delft - a virtual desert, with no jobs and scant public services, where a viable community cannot be adequately sustained.
We feel blessed to have spent a weekend here and look forward to the opportunity of returning in the future.
We feel strongly that regular follow-up appointments will help provide the needed support and education necessary for healthy weight loss and weight maintenance in the future.
We feel that we now have extended family in Hof, Germany, and plan to visit them in the future.
We fully respect the heritage into which they have both been born and will always respect and encourage them in their royal role but we, like you, recognise the need for them to experience as many different aspects of life as possible to arm them spiritually and emotionally for the years ahead.
We generally book about 6 months ahead, but sometimes have last minute openings and will take bookings up to a year in advance.
We had the hope and dream of someday getting a record deal with our own songs.
We have a couple of German guys at our club who wandered in about 5 years ago and haven’t left.
We have a great deal of money in a year but it goes to hire helpers, protect us from thieves and vagabonds that surround us, but we hope to have better times before long.
We have a great opportunity to make the most sweeping change in Virginia's homeschooling laws in 20 years!
We have a strategic plan; we have a vision where we’re going in the next decade and beyond.
We have all heard that this franchise has not posted a profit in the 13 years since it was relocated from Winnipeg.
We have been many times since that trip, with many more trips planned in the future.
We have gone from speed it up to disaster in 20 years.
We have known our wildernesses in 40 years, have we not?
We have learned to make our bodies the ultimate scapegoat for all of our subsequent failures, and have fixated on it as a catalyst – Someday when I am [thinner, prettier, married, in a relationship, in better shape, a size six, etc.
We have long suspected he will someday grace the stage at the Community Playhouse (or beyond).
We have no contracts with Wal-Mart at this time, but hopefully someday.
We have not been able to take a family vacation for 5 years due to various reasons and would love to get back there again someday.
We have now grown as a collective consciousness and will be about raising awareness in the future.
We have regular events once in 3 months are so and we have about 3000 members.
We have selected this article to be in our first launch issue because we think it sends us all a wake up call as to how significant the internet is going to be in the future.
We have shown in previous essays, that the 52-year cycle seems to have been well chosen by the ancient astronomer-priests in that 52 years (of the 365 count) represents 1/500th of the Sun's Great Cycle of 26,000 years (365c).
We have socialized her since we have had her, she has gone on probably more than 20 horse shows in the 2 years we've owned her.
We have thought of God’s laws and commandments, which are all righteous, holy and still viable, as means to an end, to which if we apply ourselves with exceptional diligence, like studying math or grammar, we would someday pass some spiritual exam and become Christ like.
We have to make a decision in the next few months.
We have to play to win, this is the mentality of Brazil, all that happened before behind us," said Dunga, which rejects criticism accusing him of playing defensive and highlighted the power scorer once: 113 goals in three years.
We haven't produced it in two years now; we're going to start producing it next year, but we're still working on the pricing with Pepin and Jaime [Garcia].
We haven’t hear from Huey Lewis and the News in nine years, but the Grammy-winners are releasing a new album entitle Soulsville on November 2.
We help you to pass your OREA license within 4 months, how to pass all orea courses fast, which part of the books you should read, what are most important topics you should study.
We hit it off immediately but I was graduating from college in a few months and returning home.
We hope that you have found this information to be useful and appreciate the opportunity to continue to serve you in the future.
We hope the artifacts you are seeing now will be here for them to see in the future, in just as fine condition as they are today.
We hope to build a relationship to offer this as a service to our many clients in the future, subject to a successful campaign on our own site.
We hope to have many talks like this in the future.
We hope to have this available as a feature of Dada Mail in the future.
We hope to provide more in the future as time allows.
We hope to run further such courses in the future, as we seem to have generated lots of interest.
We hope to schedule a photoshoot with Ryan L'Ecuyer again in the future, and for now we are pleased to introduce him to you and add Ryan to our roster of upcoming bodybuilders and fitness models at NorthAmericanbodies.
We hope your grandchildren, and their grandchildren too, will someday visit the Dickinson Museum Center.
We just bought a new home and we are planning on purchasing more from Dufresne in the future.
We just have to put our faith in God and hope for good reports in the future.
We know that for every 10 new customers we gain, 9 of them will continue doing business with us in the future.
We know that this idea will not go away and its proponents are likely try again in the future.
We know this bill will increase interest rates 141 basis points which means the loss of additional million plus jobs in the next five years," he said.
We live in a decade that is constantly seeking inspiration from the past, and Hulger phones certainly represents that idea.
We look forward to going back to Toccoa in the future and seeing all those great race fans that make that place so special," said Lee.
We look forward to having you meet our new colleagues in the year ahead.
We look forward to more glorious democracy in the next few months as we are asked to decide which political party should take over the fine work of allowing us all to be ripped off by bankers, forcing us to work until we drop dead to pay off the same bankers' debts which our rulers have kindly agreed to sort out on our behalf, and, of course, passing new laws to stop us doing anything about this rather depressing state of affairs.
We look forward to offering the continued high standard of service to our clients and students in the future.
We lost a great number more men in the Battle of Normandy than we have lost in four years in the Iraq war.
We may change our terms and conditions at any time, so please do not assume that the same terms will apply in the future.
We may consider expanding the scope of artwork in the future.
We may do so in the future; in the meantime, please see the other review sources to the right and browse the information from Amazon.
We may expect that administrative organization in the future will be more symmetrical, unified and integrated, with few independent agencies standing apart.
We may in the future need to restrict access to parts (or all) of our website and reserve full rights to do so.
We may not get there in one year or even in one term.
We met and photographed Karl at that show and hope to photograph him further in the future.
We might feel entertained, but someday, our next generation will not see like this anymore.
We might offer a full package like that in the future but not at this time.
We need 3 bedroom condos: All About Cities points out that we're going to start needing 3-bedroom condos  in the future as more families want to stay in the city.
We need a new "TV Week" that lists the digital channels and those that go digital in the next few months, 24/7.
We need to look at setting up the infrastructure first and see were we are in a few years.
We need to think about the control of our computers and the Internet as much as we do the gas for our automobiles for the Internet Highway will be as important as our Interstate Highways in the future.
We of course learned much about space travel during that time that would make it so much easier for deeper ventures into the solar system in the future.
We once again request the Secretariat to give more importance to these training events and increase their number in the future.
We plan to add in foreign racing at some point in the future.
We plan to add more RSS feeds in the future.
We plan to sell another one lakh scooters in the next five months,” he said.
We prefer to say, however, that the primary purpose of prophecy is to inspire faith in those who see its fulfillment, and only secondarily to inform us of what is going to happen in the future.
We put it up on the internet and within two months it’s got almost a thousand hits.
We really enjoy being involved with Utah Scholars and hope that we can continue to support them in the future.
We received a major project of 100 person years to be delivered in 9 months.
We remain committed to this goal now and in the future.
We remain confident that the PTS will keep its high level of professionalism and dedication in the years ahead.
We said things like “I promise I’ll come home in a year.
We see that investment as something to ensure our sustainability in the future.
We see that our club can be a springboard for those players in the future.
We stay here every time we come through the area.
We suspect the time is coming soon when ministries like this one who dare speak the truth lovingly but plainly will be silenced through the exercise of these new broad, police state type powers.
We sysadmins can certainly figure it out, but it would make for a nice video, especially for those who are moving to blades in the future for their HPC needs.
We take a veritable world wide tour to determine which countries may have key developments in Disclosure in the future, including South America, Japan, Europe, Australia and a lengthy discussion on why it's "all or nothing" when it comes to China and disclosure.
We talk about our favorites and what to expect from the band in the future.
We think this valuation disparity will disappear in the years ahead as Wall Street finally gives Saucony the exposure and recognition that it deserves.
We tremendously apologize for the inconvenience this will have for all of you and we promise we will try our very hardest to avoid these kind of changes in the future.
We trust that the Lord will work all things together for good for those who love Him and are called according to His purpose, that they may become even more effective and productive in the future.
We understand the power of play and its positive impact on a child’s life – now and in the future.
We use cookies to help us remember and process the items in your shopping cart, understand and save your preference for future visits, keep track of advertisements and compile aggregated data about site traffic and site interaction so that we can offer better site experiences and tools in the future.
We use cookies to keep track of advertisements and compile aggregate data about site traffic and site interaction so that we can offer better site experiences and tools in the future.
We usually come to these places in life without a clue for what the years ahead will require.
We want to continue to meet this need in the future .
We want to ensure that all residents of Elmhurst get the greatest possible benefit from their library both now and in the future.
We want to make sure that any results that change via the SERPS is from the links that will be built to these sites in the future.
We want to take that even further in the future.
We want to thank those customers who have made Land Desktop a critical part of their workflow over the years and we look forward to continuing to provide solutions that meet your challenges in the future.
We will also use the new capital to support our ongoing core technology development and market penetration efforts, as we look to grow substantially in the years ahead.
We will be doing some pretty sweet shows down there in the next few months.
We will be featuring more self introductions in the future on the Friday Fun segment.
We will be offering a more updated way to be for those who will arrive on this planet in the future.
We will be travelling thousands upon thousands of miles in the next month.
We will be wanting to share more information in the future regarding our collected historical information from witnesses, contactees, abductees, regarding aliens, Ets, UFOs  , EBEs, Flying Saucers, SFOs and any and all paranormal related information that will be changing our future acknowledgement, awareness, discoveries, education, research  , and development in the above topics.
We will complete our analysis of our other sites in the next three months.
We will continue to bring greater efficiency, convenience and transparency to even more supply chains in the future with the innovative use of IT and the Internet.
We will definitely be using you again in the future.
We will definitely continue to adopt all our furry friends in the future.
We will have artificial intelligence life forms on earth in the future.
We will improve our themes in the future for YOU.
We will keep you in mind if we are in need of a home inspection in the future.
We will let you know if, and to what extent we do use them in the future.
We will most certainly use your company again in the future.
We will not even have to leave our own homes in the future.
We will report to you on this process in the future.
We will return them to God someday.
We will think of you and look forward to seeing you again someday.
We will try to avoid this problem in the future.
We will work with various Quantum Scientists in the future.
We won 2-1 at Upton Park, I scored both and we beat Arsenal for the first time in 14 years.
We wonder if The Times will be blinking, sometime in the next six months or so, when it sees the light.
We work with Gold clients to optimise their online lead generation capacity on an ongoing basis, typically doubling or tripling online revenues within 12 months.
We would be greatly appreciate your feedback on why the delivered item was unsatisfactory, in order to server you better in the future.
We would be very happy if this meagre percentage is doubled in one year and thereafter every year, at least if we can come up to about 15% - 20%.
We would like to know under whose authority this is being done, and if the information is to continue to be confiscated in the future?
We'll also have a voicemail box for you to call into in the future, to get your opinion on the air!
We'll go on his boat, someday.
We'll learn about resources for reporters and specifics about how the new reform bill will affect various sectors of health care in California in the months and years ahead.
We'll post more in the future about the tech resources we find useful, and look forward to hearing your thoughts in the Comments.
We'll see when the time comes.
We'll talk in a month.
We're also working on new additional birds for you to add to your collection in the future.
We're hopefully taking away that cumulative score system someday, which means that people who don't do well in galaxies on average, and hasn't done so consistently, will plummet from the score tables.
We're the world leaderabout two years ahead of th .
We've made one of the largest percentage increase in the VA’s budget in 30 years, and we're dramatically increasing funding for veterans' health across the board.
Wear parts,changes and additions through in a few decades,but at the end of the century had lines very similar to those that are not at the beginning of the century,MBT Shoes  ,paint is the most important discount mbt shoes  with Louis XV heelIn 1900,perhaps because women's cheap mbt shoes  legs never displayed and feet are seen sitting in part,stockings and mbt shoes sale  are not given much attention.
Weather conditions permitting, the first Danish rocket is set for lift-off this Saturday, a project which if successful could see one of its founders in a few years time becoming the first Dane in space.
Web Designer (Riau) Requirements: * Good interpersonal and strong leadership * Fluent in English and Computer literacy is a must * Strong background with min 2 years experience in the same .
Weekly unemployment filings are down for the first time in a year while jobs in Iraq are on the rise.
Weight gain in the future will be put on in different areas than your lipo treated areas.
Weird-squared begin about one year after “Kill All the Lawyers?
Welcome her to send you further feedback in the future!
Well played examples of this bass are going to be seen as very "cool" by the relic fraternity in a few years, as the nitro finish will undoubtedly mark very easily.
Well, dearie, hope you're more careful who you accept proposals from in the future.
Well, even in three years, things have moved on.
Well, even though I feel confident I’ll be revisiting the Child Please topic in the future (and no doubt even using the phrase on occasion in these humble scribblings), I think this would be a good place to stop for now.
Well, for starters, it’s easy for many marketers to understand: customers who bought recently and have a history of buying large amounts often are more likely to purchase again in the future.
Well, from what I gather they are going to get rid of the infection and than in about 6 months they will evaluate to see if they can reverse the bag.
Well, in this day and age, it looks like nuclear power plants are going to be making a big-time comeback, as soon as the kook in la Casa Blanca stops tilting at windmills -- or we get a new kook.
Well, it worked, and in a few years, I was the biggest, meanest tank in school, and no-one challenged me.
Well, its been a looong time coming, but I finally have a working Apple //e, 19 years on after I first used one, and actually 10 years after I got this one.
Well, let s see, what will happen in the future.
Well, ok, maybe in a few years.
Well, someday you will see some blood.
Well, this year is coming to its end, and we feel that conclusions are necessary.
Well, until he rejoins the band sometimes in the future, as fans hope.
Were System z's third-quarter shortfalls an aberration or a harbinger of a rough year ahead?
Western Australian Resources Minister Norman Moore  said yesterday he expected a uranium mine to be up and running in WA within three years, a target the Greens have described as ambitious and a concern.
We’ll explore climate and cyberbullying in great detail over the upcoming months.
We’ll see if I’m still laughing when my kids start driving in 10 years or so.
We’ll see the actual data in the future, but I’d bet good money that only a very small proportion are without progression after 6 months.
We’re especiallyexcited about JetBlue’s commitment to the community and are lookingforward to partnering with them on many more projects in the future.
We’re expecting MIDI support to become a de facto requirement for iOS synths in the next few months.
We’re hoping to see a lot more of them in the future.
We’re making our government’s largest ever investment in renewable energy â€“ an investment aimed at doubling the generating capacity from wind and other renewable resources in three years.
We’ve also added additional hospitals and physician offices that will be going live in the next month or so.
We’ve had a blast this week but in the year ahead we have to keep our book candles burning.
We’ve made great friends in the 2 years we’ve been here.
We’ve never had a no-show in nearly 3 decades and do not over-book our girls!
What I do know is that we could certainly learn more about our visitors and ancestors of space in the future.
What I meant to say is that I’d bet yes – they will release 1 or more dot updates in the future.
What Will Mortgage Interest Rates Be At In Ten Years?
What Will Your Lighting Look Like in the Future?
What actually happens is that the settlement takes place in the future but the price is agreed upon on that day (today).
What are you in 5 years?
What are your goals in the next 5 years?
What can I do to reduce my home heating bill now and in the future?
What can we expect from this year ahead.
What can we look for from Barn Dandy’s  in the next few months?
What can we tell about the progress of limited English proficient students in one year from this data?
What could Doug Racine do in the next few years to give himself a platform for a comeback?
What developed within a year of the program's birth was a staggering demand by community associations for land to grow their own food.
What do you see him doing in the future to avoid it?
What do you think can be done to increase the effectiveness of such partnerships in the future?
What do you think interest rates will be in 10 years?
What do you want to be doing in 10 years?
What does he hope to try in the future?
What he did not know then was that within a year she would claim she had received divinely revealed plans for a new missionary institute of men, of whom Liguori was to be the founder.
What hearing scientists have learned in 25 years of studying the development of hearing in infants and children is that youngsters' immature thresholds in the sound booth reflect immature hearing, not just immature responses.
What if I want to move house in the future?
What impact might God's response to Elijah have on your relationship with the Lord in the future?
What infrastructure technololgies might we see in the next 18 months that will affect enterprise content applications?
What is happening within is largely speculation, including Belke's (quite plausible) estimate that within a year tens of thousands had already "suffered and died" as the result of the destruction of the major facilities for producing affordable drugs and veterinary medicines.
What is in the future for Evil Wine?
What is the suspension for 12 points in 12 months?
What is your view of local broadcasting's role in the future?
What kind of results can I expect in 6 months?
What might work now may not work in the future and finally, it takes time.
What new and more advanced phenomena will we learn about in the future?
What new plug-ins do you have planned in the future?
What prizes do you think would be goodfor an enter to wincontest in the future?
What will become of them in the future?
What will happen in 30 years and in 300 years.
What will the Brevard County space industry look like in 10 years?
What will the Chicago metro area look like in 30 years?
What will the years ahead bring us?
What worked in the past may not work in the future.
What would prevent her in the future from “opening the kimono” and disclosing inner workings of a business?
What would you like your conglomerate to be in five years?
What you feel you lack in the present may become one of your strengths in the future.
What you look at today will be long gone in a month.
What you may not realize is that this can create major, major problems for you in the future.
What you report will be a deciding factor in whether we do business with that particular new car dealer in the future.
What you would normally deliver in a year, you must be able to deliver in 0.
What you’re thinking of is frames, I’ll go into in more detail in the future.
What's in the future for pornMonkey.
Whats worrying though is that I was reading about this, and it said that within a few years, the spammers might find away around the current image based captcha, and that new developments would make captcha more human related, such as showing several photos of parts of Zebras, and then asking the user to type in the animal they see.
What’s also interesting about public interest in real estate is that one of the primary focuses is the profit-making potential of the industry – basically the mentality of if I buy a house today, how can I make it pay for itself and how much will it be worth in the future?
What’s more is that within six years of having a heart attack, 46% of women are disabled with heart failure.
What’s more, if you can look for them all the time, then, you may find that your real estate listings are enough someday.
What’s really interesting though is that in barely three months, several of the girls can bake bread and cakes.
Wheat, corn, rice, barley will be as important for international trade as gold will be in the future.
When I go to Europe again in the future I am getting the 275 model which is the same as this but has maps for Europe as well.
When I had issues with my printer and cartridges, The telephone customer services, not only gave me advice over the phone instantly, they also promised a full refund if i had further issues and also advice on how to stop the problem happening in the future, I honestly could not ask for more, thanks guys, we at Family First are certainly looking forward to long healthy relationship.
When I mention to people that I am an author and book publishing coach, I often get the response, “I want to write a book someday.
When I mentioned this to our Parish Priest he was insulted and said he would be glad to help me in the future.
When I realease a record, it’s going to sound a bit like all of these amazing artists, but that is in the future for now.
When I told the stylist on the phone that I hadn’t been to a barber in six years, she gasped in alarm.
When Mario Savio enrolled at UC Berkeley in 1963, it was his third college in three years.
When Peter Stanwick moved in a year and a half ago and ended up on the same dinner serving, a friendship was struck and the three became partners on their mission of fun and hi-jinx.
When Steve Jobs came back and insufflated the company with confidence in the future, sales started rising again.
When bedtime comes around, does your child throw bedtime tantrums?
When extra few hundreds collectors, who can afford to purchase, in competing the limited supply, the value of those rare coins can reach $10,000 in the next few years is a quite reasonable assumption.
When he tried to launch the website again a few months later it did not have the same impact and most of the time it is like a ghost town.
When he wants a woman he takes her, just like he did with me all those years ago and just like he did again two months ago.
When it comes to the field of Unless you want to miss out on the most exciting information about Short Term Memory in a Decade!
When it comes to themes or templates, Joomla is light-years ahead of Drupal - which has me scratching my head, Where are all the Drupal theme designers?
When such times come up, people usually feel so helpless with the situation that they are unable to fight it.
When targeting promotions to individuals based on their age you should do one of two things… Verify their age and segment/target appropriately or give them the option to opt-out of age specific promotions in the future.
When that time comes, are you confident that your caregiver—your wife, husband, son, daughter, grandchild—will be able to handle your financial affairs without your help?
When the cooler months come rolling in I like to combine the earthy elements of mushrooms and autumn vegetables with reminders of summer such as cool and crisp fruits and lettuces.
When the omega watches  time comes, Franck Muller will explain all details of Mega4 to montblanc watches  public.
When the time comes everything will be answered.
When the time comes that you get tired of setting up the toy model train  set around the Christmas tree and storing it away when Christmas passes every year, you may want to thing about building yourself something more permanent.
When the time comes they will come and get me.
When the time comes to create content for your site, recruit as many employees and friends as you can to help.
When the time comes to move on you'll want that to be your decision, not your employer's.
When the time comes to slow down, the latest Dyna is up to the challenge, thanks to a trio of four-piston Hayes calipers biting hard on 11 1/2 inch (292 mm) discs.
When the time comes, I will sit with her and talk it out if she gives me a chance.
When the time comes, we can get the Arab nations to join us for the final blow against Israel.
When the time comes, we'll work together to decide which restorative procedure best suits your needs.
When their time comes, the succubus that emerged at the first judgment has drained all the goodness out of the woman's body, which has gone up the umbilical cord and has nurtured him, the umbilical cord snaps, and the faun critter has become a blue green angel, identical to the angels that say yea or nay at the second judgment at the fire.
When these CD’s mature in 5 years they will have to pay everyone their gains which could be hundreds of thousands or more all at once.
When those times come, I stand by my original corn dog when let's get all artsy-craftsy now.
When time comes to wash them, there will be no need to give it too much time or effort.
When told that he is terminally ill, with possibly only a few months left to him, Johan makes Mai promise to help him die “when the time comes”.
When two rival teams play against each other the match is known as a derby and teams can play against each other 6 or more times in one year.
When untreated the active tuberculosis death rate amounts up to 50% within a year or two.
When we first moved in 8 years ago, the gardens were in terrible shape from years of neglect and too many chemical pesticides and fertilizers.
When we said 90% of the state secretariat are bogus certificate Andhraites, the then CM YSR said in 3 months time we will release the region wise count.
When you are planning on purchasing power tools it's important to ask yourself what you plan to do with the tool, now and in the future.
When you create such classics as Halloween, The Thing and Escape from New York within four years, any subsequent films will never apparently measure up.
When you find a page on our site of interest to you, which you wish to share or use again yourself in the future, just click on one of these links to add the page to your list.
When you get two nominations in two decades, and then you get three in one year?
When you have spent a lot of money on some new equipment, you want to be sure that you'll still be using it in a year or more's time.
When you include Hospice of the Comforter in your estate plans, you create a legacy of hope for those who will need Hospice of the Comforter’s care in the years ahead.
When you, as an astrologer, wish to take a look at a chart, in order to get an idea of the development of a person's planetary pattern in any one year, you merely compute which day in the Ephemeris of the birth year corresponds to the year you wish to assess.
When “Joe User” becomes frustrated with paying for commercial software that has been engineered to be obsolete in 3 years is when he will discover Linux and open source software programs are amazing because they work well and are free.
Where a sufficient portion of the Decedent’s Estate is comprised of assets in a closely held and active business, his estate may qualify to pay the estate tax attributable to these assets over a 14-year period instead of within 9 months of death.
Where do you see the Indian hotel industry heading in the future?
Where do you want to be in five years: "Hopefully I get drafted or go to college, probably a junior college.
Where do you want to be in five years: "Hopefully I'll go to school some where in Texas and then sign a pro contract.
Where do you want to be in five years: "Hopefully I'm on a farm team, after I go to college.
Where do you want to be in five years: "Hopefully in a minor-league system working my way up the ladder.
Where do you want to be in five years: "I hope to be playing in the majors .
Where do you want to be in five years: "I want to be in the major leagues.
Where do you want to be in five years: "I'd like to be at a great college.
Where do you want to be in five years: "In the big leagues.
Where do you want to be in five years: "Playing in the minors and working my way up to the big leagues.
Where do you want to be in five years: "Playing pro after I get a college education.
Where do you want to be in five years: "Playing pro ball, hopefully in the majors.
Where do you want to be in five years: "Playing pro baseball.
Where do you want to be in the next five years?
Where it is foreseen that a carer is unlikely to be able to continue caring indefinitely, planning should start early to establish how their needs could be met in the future.
Where we sometimes come up short however, is in failing to see how the English sounds if we were to read our reviews out loud and many freelance writers will tell you that this is one of the most important aspects of checking over your work as it’s often not until you verbalise the English you have written down on the paper that you can often spot errors or, in some cases, something might just not sound right.
Where will it be in five years?
Where will the Internet be in 10 years and what will it mean to the industry?
Where will you be financially in three years if you continue doing what you are doing today?
Where will you be in a year?
Whereas 10 years ago 20 whale sharks would be sighted in a year, it is now not uncommon to see 20 a day during the “whale shark” season.
Whereas more commonly used woods are taken from trees that can take up to 40 years to reproduce, bamboo can be re-harvested in about three years.
Whether a cap and trade scheme or direct carbon taxation is the answer, business interests in the United States realize that they will be impacted in one way or another in the years ahead as the climate plan eventually materializes in the United States.
Whether it increases in popularity or not significantly depends the degree to which home technology and appliances become accepted into mainstream home lifestyles now and in the future -- and whether the companies hiring the technicians that will install and troubleshoot such systems adopt HTI+.
Whether its tommorow or in 50 years time.
Whether or not this history is permitted to come out in a tribunal, the issue of who will be in charge in Iraq in the future still remains crucial and is highly contested right at this moment.
Whether the rest of the country follows suit will be decided in the months ahead.
Whether they indeed will be done in one year or not is still an open question.
Whether you think we need 10,000 more units in five years or 2,000 more in five years, the point is that we’re still not creating supportive permanent housing for people with AIDS at all.
Whether you're a staff reporter or freelancer, you've undoubtedly heard that to survive in the media in the future, you'll need to blog, podcast, and Twitter.
Whether your currently looking for HD content, or going to be looking for HD content in the future we feel this forum will help you with finding what your looking for quickly and conveniently.
Whether you’ve been diagnosed with type 1, type 2 or gestational diabetes, a large part of managing your diabetes is understanding your condition, knowing what insulin or medication options are available, and what you can do to help avoid medical complications in the future.
Which has been a long time coming.
Which is: I want to lose a 15 pounds in a month.
Which penny stocks will do well in the future?
Which properties are proposed to allow commercial use in the future?
Which vendor will have the top place or the biggest slice of the market in a few years time is hard to predict.
Which, in 1400 years of Islamic history, has been quite often.
While 10 of my students scored 1’s in the fall ELA simulation, all but four of them met the criteria, even in a year when the criteria were supposedly tougher.
While 2008's In The Future was a decade highlight for me, Wilderness Heart proves to be something of a departure from it's predecessor - eschewing that early 70's monolithic .
While 527 visits in 3 months might sound impressive, IMHO it doesn't quite measure up to the "Word of Mouth" factor that drives real visibility on YouTube.
While I love to see more Malaysians riding bikes, I have to say that I rather see them live and kicking in the next few years.
While I wouldn’t suggest using all your passes for the Toronto International Film Festival on major Hollywood pictures, there are a few features that might be fun to see before they hit the big screen in the upcoming months — even if it’s only to brag to your friends that you’ve seen them already.
While I’m sure you will offer any assistance that we might request in the future – and I urge you to contact us immediately, should you hear from Luc – our business with you is… probably at an end.
While Minister Abboud’s speech defined the gaps that hinder the growth of the Lebanese tourism sector and the ways and means which may be adopted in the future to overcome these gaps.
While Soren dreams of someday joining his heroes, his older brother, Kludd, scoffs at the notion, and yearns to hunt, fly and steal his father's favor from his younger sibling.
While US-VISIT’s Entry program was able to get up and running within a few years after 9/11, a corollary Exit program has never gotten beyond the pilot stage, despite widespread congressional support.
While Wales are obviously nowhere near as good as England, we have a youthful squad that will no doubt improve significantly in the next few years.
While a majority of Brazilians believe they have been negatively affected by the downtown in the global economy, they are among the most optimistic that their situation will improve within a year.
While apparently missing out on the immediate price gains experienced in Lynn, Dracut's home prices haven't been as volatile during the downturn and could see a paced recovery in the future.
While cell phone penetration in the region has been a tremendous success, revenues from mobile advertising (/crunchies/category/online-marketing/mobile-advertising/) is still in its infancy and is not expected to reach great levels in the next few years.
While gas prices don’t seem like they will be dipping considerably in the next few months every tip to help you make your car more fuel efficient is helpful.
While horizontal wells and water drives allowed Ghawar to produce more than 4 mbpd even as it was ageing the use of that technology means that there is far less oil to extract now and in the future.
While it has some potential for improvement (like any other device), issues like PDF table of contents support can be addressed by a software update in the future.
While it is true Roth IRAs do not offer tax deductions the advantage of not owing taxes in the future on the Roth IRA withdrawals is a huge benefit.
While it may be painful now, failure to act will be deadly in the future.
While it may be someday, in a "Battlestar Gallactica" age end users may speak to their computer in whatever language they speak and tell it what they'd like it to do.
While less than one-half of one percent of total employment is currently green collar, in the next 30 years, these jobs could account for 10 percent of new job growth.
While some 60 steamboats, along with a complement of tug and barges, were at the Dawson docks within a year.
While some had used the earlier premiums in the futures markets to lay off their downside risk (the equivalent of end users buying futures or building physical stocks), most felt no reason to forward contract their milk at the low levels the futures were offering.
While that doesn't mean China will have to stop mining in six years--it is highly likely to find more gold in the meantime--the figure nonetheless underscores the metal's scarcity in China.
While the Corvair was restyled in the fall of 1964 and the Turbocharged Spyder was renamed "Corsa," within 6 months, the sales figures for Mustang convinced GM that the "pony car" market was more than just a flash in the pan.
While the economy is slowly improving after the recession, many across the country have been out of work for more than six months and are facing harsh months ahead, especially if the Senate continues to struggle passing an unemployment extension.
While the upbringing under this influence can be helpful in the future, often the period brings periods of feeling lonely, unappreciated and unsure of self.
While they are not anywhere close to actually sorting them through the appropriate holes, in the three months they've been playing with these, the red bucket and the lid are every bit as much fun as the blocks themselves.
While they dressed we invited them all over to our house for another party in the future.
While this does have penalties in most cases, it would not be out of the realm of possibilities for this to occur if the investor has lost faith in the manager, and it is early in the fund (with more cash needs in the future).
While we can’t change the past, we can at least work to ensure CEO pay is better aligned long-term shareowner value in the future.
While we have made progress in the past four years, in the future there are reasons for concern.
While we knew a pretension would many expected be entrance someday in November, yesterday during Comic-Con, we schooled from bard as well as artist Jim Lee which DC Universe Online will be expelled Nov.
Whilst acne can be treated early on, it is greatest that you remain on course in the prevention of obtaining this skin condition in the future.
Who else wants to make USD10, 786 in 6 months from scratch, even for an Internet newbie?
Who knows what 2007 will bring and how things will change in one year’s time, but I’m looking forward to it and hope the Church will be on the cutting-edge of creativity, innovation and inspiration.
Who knows what we’ll be browsing on in 10 years?
Who knows, maybe someday Samantha's dreams will come true.
Who theÂhell cares what impact the car culture might have in the future, I’ve got running water!
Whoever forgot should remember the [Palestinian victories in] the battle of Al-Karameh, [Jordan, 1968], the battle of Beirut [1982], and in the 7 years of the Intifada.
Whom we elect as our global community leaders on this planet in the future will be determined based on the larger picture.
Why do the Executive and the Commission continue to tout the 18 days and neglect to mention that those days could be reduced in the future?
Why is it somedays.
Why not just get 20 people to build Blogger in a month?
Why put all of that effort into perfection of the sound if its going to be streamed in some highly compressed lossy internet stream to be heard through a pair of ear buds and in a few months, never listened to again?
Why should she stay and ruin the ten year legacy of being one of the top executives in the whole world when she knew the bubble was about to pop?
Will Say thanks up front And looking forward to be in a position to work with you in the future.
Will be appreciate to serve you in the Future .
Will be looking for a vehicle in about 2 months and this sounds like a great deal.
Will it be in 25 years from now when we have hit rock bottom and our entire region looks like Detroit?
Will keep them shorter in the future.
Will order another one in the future I do recommend.
Will our application interfaces really look like this in the future?
Will someday get an intel, but not for a while.
Will surely come here for help in the future if my head aches.
Will that acceptance come in the future?
Will the companies still be here in a year or two?
Will they have the money in 5 years.
Will this issue matter in a year, for example?
Will use them in the future.
Will we be fucking robots in the future.
Will you be supplying downloads for CAT in the future?
Will you ever do anymore solo music in the future?
William Rofkar stated if you only rezone one side of the parcel to R-2 it would restrict them in the future for not allowing more dwellings if the property would get sold.
William Rofkar suggested the split and then rezoning one side of the property R-2, as this would safeguard our township from denser building in the future and it would allow the Woods family to accomplish what they intend to do.
Wind and solar power will play an ever larger role in our energy supplies in the future becoming part of our everyday lives.
Winner of 21 Sports Emmys® in 14 years, REAL SPORTS WITH BRYANT GUMBEL presents more enterprising features and reporting when its 151st edition, available in HDTV, debuts TUESDAY, OCT.
Wish can go there someday.
Wishing you a wonderful birthday and may the year ahead bring you every happiness.
With (Koc_Name)'s protection and support, you too may build an army that will someday reign over all Chaos.
With 160 books to his credit in 48 years of writing, he continues writing with an undiminished enthusiasm.
With 20 hours of ferry time ahead, they all decided to partake of some beer and exchange more stories about their biking experiences in the winter weather.
With 3 Gb/s SDI built in, you have full compatibility with all your current standard definition SDI and high definition SDI equipment, plus any new formats that come along in the future.
With 365 days in one year support, you will get all the benefits and values from your site.
With 6 moves in 3 years I empathise fully.
With 70 percent of loans recasting in the next 2 years, the notion that most of the option ARMs are modified is not correct.
With December retail sales at a 30-year low, economists and politicians are hailing 2002's holiday season as the best in three decades.
With Stevia in the picture, hopefully aspartame and splenda will be long gone in a year or two.
With a Drupal Beta planned for May 21  , the time is coming for a Media  Beta as well!
With a a wide selection of ski resorts in the Pyrenees, Sierra Nevada and the Cantabrian Mountains Spain could see her tourism numbers still further in the years ahead.
With a customer account, when accessing this site from different computers or at any time in the future, you can login to retrieve your information.
With a semi-permanent band that includes ‘70s cohorts like pianist Mike Garson and guitarist Earl Slick, Bowie's embarking on his first world tour in eight years.
With all her potentials, abilities, knowledge and positive attitudes, Adda Angel will be one of a key figures in the Khmer society in the future and will become a great asset for Khmer generations to come.
With an online data collection program, you will not just able to take care of your current necessities, but also the necessities that you are going to have in the future.
With construction under way at Aliante Station, and future projects yet to be announced, Station Casinos will need to hire approximately 500 + employees in the next four years.
With determination, goals and encouragement she obtained her GED in only three months and is now enrolled in nursing school at Wichita Area Technical College.
With dramatic walls of glass and retractable canopy, Rhapsody of the Seas has already embarked on the course other cruise ships will someday follow.
With effective implementation, these steps should allow further, substantial paperwork cuts in the years ahead.
With either plan you can rest assured that you'll be able to care for your pet when the time comes.
With falling tax revenues and an increased demand for government funds, tax arrears will add extra strain on the government coffers and make it increasingly likely that taxes will have to rise in the future to pay for government spending.
With growth likely moderating to 7–8 percent in the years ahead, officials are now turning their attention to domestic rebalancing.
With his martial arts films behind him, we can look forward to more action oriented films from this timeless actor in the future.
With his sophomore LP ‘Foundation' due for release in Feb 2010 on Digital Soundboy, it's sure to be another busy year ahead for Breakage.
With hopes to share stories of inspirations and give insight in the next six months leading up to the annual Relay for Life celebration, officials are emphasizing the importance of deadlines.
With in a few months of installation, the silicone used to attach, and seal bushings can separate from the plastic leaving the hole unprotected.
With in two years Google Chrome has captured 10% of global browser share.
With it coming in a few months and in preparation for it, I think it's time to search for the most stylist and cutest eyewear online.
With more than 24 years of experience, Kawulok has successfully closed more than 125 transactions including the sale of four restaurants in downtown Fort Collins, Colorado within a 12 month period, the sale of an R&D building converted from a utilities building, a $2.
With my love, and my best wishes, and my hopes that someday if I run into you at your booksigning or at a con where you're a guest, you'll tell me "I was at Forward Motion, and I'm doing this full time now," I'll say goodbye.
With my share of the Downtown House mortgage coming out of a tax-free draw from a whole life policy, if “non-regular” spending stays at $1,000, my bare-minimum costs next year will come to $27,672.
With new gifts, the new winter, and the new year ahead, it’s the right time for a new wallpaper for your computer.
With no experience or real knowledge about bikes was wanting some input on if this would be a good starting bike to learn with but still be enjoyable to ride in a year.
With one of the best shopping days of the year coming up, Black Friday, The Little Black Box is going to be running a Black Friday promotion.
With ongoing monitoring we strive to see their plan work at each stage in life, now and in the future.
With only 54K miles in 6 years, do the math and we can all figure out how little this well maintained vehicle was driven.
With over 50,000 graduates in 27 years, SuperCamp is the leading academic summer camp in the world.
With people like Jay Nelson around, pushing rain barrels, compost heaps and participating in other activities that protect our water, clean our air, restore our land and save our energy, the city has a chance to provide a very high quality of life in the future.
With respect to other income, one half of the tax is payable within three months of the service of the assessment notice and the balance within six months of the service of the assessment notice or by 30 April within the year of assessment, whichever is the later.
With respect, we agree, but we would add that the jurisdiction of the court to enlarge the time, even if the application is made within 12 months of the date of issue, is not to be exercised in all cases and indiscriminately.
With such amazing information out there about improve memory and concentration it is no wonder that consumers are taking a keen interest in this very area of Unless you want to miss out on the most exciting information about Short Term Memory in a Decade!
With that in mind, here are the top five reasons certain digital agencies will fail within the next five years.
With that said I’m sure someday there will be another man in my daughters life.
With the January 2009 passage of a new constitution – Bolivia's 117th in 184 years – President Evo Morales won a crucial referendum on his ambitious social agenda.
With the New Year comes new things, and we have decided to LOWER the price of one of our best selling products, Alkalife (/alkalife.
With the basic AltOS and AltosUI functionality running, we’ve got lots of ideas about where to take the system in the future.
With the competitive price, the free shipping through Amazon Prime, I can definitely see shopping online for more household products like this in the future.
With the discovery of rich copper ore came an influx of people from far and wide, and within two years the former rugged wilderness region had been transformed into a booming frontier city, one of the busiest and richest mining regions in Canada.
With the full dedication, knowledge and expertise of both Ginger and Grontmij we have great confidence in the future ahead.
With the rise of Asian players in the global economy, Red Herring believes that Asian companies will take the spotlight of world business in the next decade.
With the school year coming to an end and children having much more idol time, Kids’ Garden is a great resource for filling that time.
With the shift in intent and focus in the high school years comes the shift in co-ops.
With the three leading candidates for PNP chief retiring in a year or so, he said none of them would occupy the post long enough to initiate reforms and better programs for the organization.
With the very real possibility of a great depression looming, gaining experience in container, pod and conventional vegetable gardening may pay off in the future.
With the world's population expected to increase by almost a third in the next 50 years, to over 9 billion people, new systems of food production will be desperately important â€“ and biotechnology is developing new ways of growing crops.
With this in mind, many investors have found it extremely worthwhile to look for companies with solid businesses that might make attractive takeover candidates in the future.
With this scheme, you will hit the $125 Proofboard in 2 months.
With this strong commitment, I will continue to devote myself to my work in the next three years.
With those many years comes many traditions that still used to this day.
With three weddings in the next six months, I figured perhaps I should watch what I eat…just a bit.
With thyroxine therapy, serum TSH concentration decreases and the size of the pituitary gland shrinks into the pituitary fossa within three months (21).
With whom would you like to work together with in the future?
Within 1 month of being launched, Suweit.
Within 10 years they hope to have constructed the first Maglev train that can travel at speeds greater than 600 miles per hour.
Within 12 months following graduation have you been accepted or enrolled at an institution for another degree, diploma, or certificate?
Within 12 months of beginning CAPD, approximately 70% of patients will sustain at least one episode of peritonitis, which is one of the important causes of drop-out from this method (2).
Within 2 months, I built my site on my own using the DIY Web Creator tool provided by eOneNet  , and got my first sale from Morroco, USD92.
Within 2 years 1500 independent e-markets emerged in nearly every conceivable industry sector across the world.
Within 3 months my treatment had failed and over the next 5 months my PSA went from 2 to 335, spreading to the bones.
Within 3 months you will be able to eat almost anything you like.
Within 30 years, sitting down and learning something will be a thing of the past.
Within 6 months of graduation, Lorelle made it to Florida, but Laurie didn't.
Within 6 months of starting this affirmation, I was driving a new car (new to me), had a good job, and was living in a nice apartment.
Within 6 months or so, we should have an idea whether the right thing was done or not.
Within 6 months we were in a full blown affair.
Within 6 months, I made USD10, 786 from US, Japan, Korea, Turkey, Malaysia, and even Yugoslavia!
Within a decade he had transformed himself into a world-renowned luminary and occult scholar.
Within a decade, Albert Einstein would not only become the greatest scientific mind of his generation, but would become the most famous person on earth.
Within a decade, Mormon pioneers were sent to settle the southern part of the territory and grow cotton in Utah’s "Dixie.
Within a few months I began to notice new changes in my over-all body composition as well as new strength gains.
Within a few months I had lost the best job I ever had, isolated from my family, ignored my children,lost my home, my kids father went to jail,etc.
Within a few months I, too, was finishing several paintings each day and also going to the exporter to get more orders for myself to earn extra income.
Within a few months Israel held elections and Olmert won handily, officially replacing Sharon.
Within a few months Noob, who was discreetly working on electronica-influenced tracks, has become a well-known producer in great demand since the biggest names in the electro scene have asked to work with him.
Within a few months after Armenia gained independence, land was divided among 320,000 households.
Within a few months of completion, the trail showed steady use throughout the week, and nearly 100 community members had enrolled in the challenge.
Within a few months of its release, it had already been played more than 15 million times.
Within a few months of regular practice, I could see and feel the results.
Within a few months of the CPA's arrival in Iraq reports of corruption in the contracting process began appearing in the media.
Within a few months there was a raving war hysteria and the U.
Within a few months, I was Paloma Picasso® Loving Heart Pendant  hundreds of visitors a day, so a friend suggested that I sign up with Google AdSense, a service that puts ads on your site and pays you when someone clicks on one.
Within a few months, many other women’s organizations were established.
Within a few months, studies revealed that fear of the United States had reached remarkable heights, along with distrust of the political leadership.
Within a few months, the Rothschild controlled media was spinning the suckers that the Fed would now switch from expanding its balance sheet in something called quantitative easing (supposedly inflationary) to something called deleveraging/decoupling (which would be deflating).
Within a few years after Reconstruction ended, the South created a segregated society, with whites and blacks going their own ways, and with whites in firm political control.
Within a few years he could give up his position in the warehouse and earn more as a pianist and piano teacher.
Within a few years he was publishing poems in small press magazines around the country and individual collections followed, the contents in the more recent of them reflecting his increased identification with the natural world.
Within a few years medical opinion favored sea bathing Although treatment continued until the 1970’s, the heyday was over.
Within a few years no doubt, hopefully the same commission will recommend that private enterprise handle interplanetary exploration as well.
Within a few years of the commission’s completion, more than half of the buildings Utter captured had been razed.
Within a few years the “Bigler Lake” name was forgotten.
Within a few years, Nowak’s father purchased the land and moved his family into an old farmhouse on the property.
Within a few years, according to Torney, the company plans to be building new S-64’s from the keel up.
Within a few years, the town boasted its own post office.
Within a few years, we can expect to see 100s of proposals calling for more reasonable thresholds and holding periods, as well as allowing a greater proportion of shareowner nominees.
Within a month my pain was drastically reduced and the migraines were a thing of the past.
Within a month of his first attempt, claimant succeeded in gaining entry.
Within a month of my returning home is when he reneged on his vows to me, and only then did all hell brake loose for him on his homefront.
Within a month of the start of the session, students showed evidence of better study habits, discipline, and even better health.
Within a month or two after any fire that occurrs in a wildlands situation, local home owners should hire a professional botanist or ecologist, who can do a survey of the burn area and make a list of the plants that were fire resistant in the area.
Within a month she knew she had made a mistake.
Within a month she was rehearsing in "Bea's Kitchen" (the kitchen of the Luke and Bea Smathers' house), and performing with the band on stage.
Within a month the occlusions in my legs had cleared to the point that my doctor assumed there had been a misdiagnosis.
Within a month, it sold on Amazon for $150.
Within a month, more than five thousand banks across the country failed and closed their doors.
Within a week I knew that somehow, someday, I was going to play guitar.
Within a year he had recorded the other side of the looking glass, his first solo release, a rap-heavy introspective opus.
Within a year my eye-sight was better.
Within a year of her capture, Demasduit died of tuberculosis, and her people were extinct within a decade.
Within a year of launching the free e-mail service in the UK, Gmail became Google Mail.
Within a year of the time we started drinking Aspartame pop, three of my immediate family members experienced brain tumors, even though there had never before even been a single brain tumor in our entire known family tree.
Within a year she will die in her husband's arms.
Within a year the boys had notched up three further hits, establishing them as Hickory Records' top act.
Within a year they added 500,000 workers to their rolls.
Within a year, Sam had ingratiated himself to staffers who could benefit him: top executives but also the "informal leaders" - middle managers and administrative assistants who got the real work done.
Within a year, he received 4000+ subscribers and became Youtube partner.
Within a year, in fact, he was promoted to a division CEO role.
Within a year, the existence of the bridge will end as it too will be demolished to make way for a new version.
Within a year, with the blessing of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation, the burned-out structure was razed.
Within a year, “Banting” had entered the English language as a verb meaning “to diet.
Within about six months I completed the CAD-500-T, a five channel Cary Cinema amplifier.
Within eight months of mobilization, morning colors were being sounded on 264 United States Navy vessels, ragtag or otherwise.
Within five years, AHEAD was established as the country’s premiere tutorial and review center.
Within five years, the NTT network had been expanded to cover the whole population of Japan and became the first nation-wide 1G network.
Within four years, the operation grew to eighty-some employees.
Within one month after parliamentary elections, the president is required to call the first session of the new Senate.
Within several months of meeting, the two were already hard at work on the music that would become the basis for "Last Time.
Within six months after the overthrow of Somoza, the Carter Administration had initiated the CIA destabilization campaign, inherited and expanded by the Reaganites.
Within six months he had scored nine straight knockouts and was such a sensation that he headlined the Deborah Hospital Show at the Arena in May, administering a terrific beating to the veteran Henry "Pappy" Gault, who barely managed to last the eight round limit.
Within six months her hearing is back to normal, she also has no muscle pains and her skinny face now looks full and beautiful.
Within six months of McFall’s death, West may have been linked to another disappearance, that of 15-year-old Mary Bastholm, who was abducted from a bus stop in Gloucester in January 1968, although only circumstantial evidence has ever been produced to corroborate this.
Within six months of leaving college, Angela had secured funding from her bank and found a small shop to rent.
Within six months of starting to write her first children’s book, Natasha Wing sold it and has been writing for a young set of readers ever since.
Within six months risedronate increased spine and hip BMD and during the first year decreased the risk of new vertebral fracture by 61%.
Within six months the first Israeli ambassador to the Vatican had taken up his post.
Within six months, another shameful incident was uncovered.
Within six months, however, the U.
Within six months, we didn't have a single one of the tall glasses left.
Within six months,identfy and assist in selection process for technical and administration support personnel.
Within six years from the end of the term of five years the plaintiff commence action to recover the principal and also the interest due thereon for the period within six years before the date of the issue of the writ.
Within six years, the avalanche (combined with good products and heads-up management) turned their little company into a $127 million operation before it was sold to Computer Associates.
Within the next few months, Americans will face new challenges when it comes to viewing TV over the air.
Within the next few months, a van filled with medications to help drug addicts kick their habit will begin to ply the streets of Trenton.
Within the next five years the Yotes will either be moved to another American city, or the NHL will fold them, have a dispersal draft, and then turn around and get big bucks the same year for an expansion in an American city.
Within the next one hundred years airplanes were going 100 miles an hour and by 1960 missiles were traveling at over 1800 mph.
Within the next six months half of them died as a result of illnesses contracted during their voyage, exposure to the freezing elements of the Eastern seaboard, a lack of sufficient food.
Within the next three months, about 100,000 babies are expected to be born in flood-affected areas.
Within the next year, the proletariat Mercado No.
Within the nine months we will also talk with SMEs, and after the nine months, we will actually have a plan on what kind of incubators we should have in Brunei.
Within three months of the launch of version 1, the site was visited by more than 50000 visitors.
Within three months of the treaty, North Vietnam illegally infiltrated into South Vietnam 30 000 additional troops and tens of thousands of tons of military supplies.
Within three months, the act will be implemented,’ Health Minister Ghulam Nabi Azad said during the Question Hour.
Within three years he was on a post-MBA track.
Within three years it produced 500 tons of milk on an investment of $106,000.
Within three years, A.
Within two months, I realized the arthritis  in my hips and back was almost totally relieved.
Within two months, basically the film was in the can.
Within two years ofmanufacturing Cryocomp vacuum seal off valves and vacuum jacketed cryogenic valves (a product line of DLH Industries),our team expanded into larger valves and other components with a catalog and inventory to betterserve clients.
Within two years the program went from last place in the Ivy League to a close second in 1995, losing a championship match to mighty Princeton.
Within two years they'd reached their savings goal and began house hunting.
Within two years those children would be denouncing her to the Thought Police.
Within two years we have greatly expended our presence: either directly through subsidiaries such as in Italy or through partners such as in Spain, in the Netherlands, in Finland or in Canada.
Within two years, Beak n Wings had started attending local festivals, reaching out to the community with educational materials and advice, and also held the club’s first Bird Expo at Benjamin Ranch.
Within two years, however, he had allied himself with Puritans in opposition to the episcopacy established by his church.
Without a college degree it will be difficult to make it in the future.
Without taking the time to look at the opportunities for research, education and wildlife enhancement, the Forest Service has determined that the blowdown is an emergency situation best addressed by what could become the largest national forest timber sale ever in Colorado in a decade.
Without the charging of fees or the hope of receiving payments in the future for those being trained, the biblical counseling movement would be decimated.
Without the middle finger it would be impossible to draw the renowned English longbow and therefore they would be incapable of fighting in the future.
Without the new landfill, the county does not have the means to get rid of the ash dump, other than a faint-but-misguided hope that the site will someday qualify for Superfund cleanup or Brownfields reclamation.
Without those basics, in 10 years they could find themselves in their own credit nightmare.
Woman writes in that a 30 year friend of [.
Women fuking will driving Someday I'd like to find the right girl and get serious.
Women's Dietary Supplements plus info on Metabolic Weight Loss Center or How To Loose Weight Fast In A Month Are you looking for the most effective weight loss products?
Women, and even little girls, who think they may wish to have and breastfeed a baby in the future would do well to realize that the diet they eat today will greatly affect the health of their young.
Word has been out fora whilethat dwindling meltwater from Peru’s tropical glaciers will lead to dire water shortages in 40 years  unless radical measures are taken to findand conserve new sources.
Work will start in September and is scheduled for completion in 38 months.
Working full-time, he managed to graduate in three years.
Working with a CWE consultant is an investment in the future of your business, and will help you keep ahead of the game.
World War II, or the Second World War, (often abbreviated WWII) was a global military conflict which involved a majority of the world's nations, including Santa Ana Army Air Base ( SAAAB) was an air base built during World War II that was decommissioned in 1946 Within three decades of incorporation, the city's population had nearly quintupled.
World's billionaires have an average net worth of $3 billion, down 23% in 12 month, and they are now 793, down from 1,125 last year, according to the Forbes magazine's annual list of the richest people on earth.
Worried about Webcam sex - is it likely to be recorded and come back to haunt me in the future?
Would like to be a decent dancer in time for my wedding in a month.
Would love to get back to see the rest of the country someday in my lifetime!
Would love to visit there someday.
Would not buy that in the future.
Would order from this company again in the future.
Would she be up for revisiting the role in 20 years’ time?
Would you be interested in attending members conferences in the future?
Would you like to receive emails in the future?
Would you strike now for better conditions in the future, or would you cross the line to provide care for the patients already there?
Wow 3 awards in one year is BIG TIME.
Write down whatever that number is that you want to reach in one year’s time.
Write it down - Writing down what you eat will provide a reality check on how many calories you are actually consuming and will help you resist in the future.
Written in two months, Talk Radio was first performed in March of 1987 and by April of the following year shooting had already begun.
YOU AGREE THAT if you want to sue us, you must file your lawsuit within 1 year after the event that gave rise to your lawsuit.
YUSUFALI: Within a few years.
Ya see, the sad thing about a guy like you is that in 50 years your gonna start doing some thinkin of your own and you're gonna realize that there are two certainties in life: one: don't do that.
Yeah I do want to have kids someday and I would show them everything.
Yeah, got a player who sometimes comes to my group and does that every time.
Year comes totally without any extras.
Yearly manufacturing production turned positive in January for the first time in 21 months.
Yearwood is set to launch her first studio album in two years Heaven, Heartache And The Power Of Love, on November 13th.
Yep, it’s going to be one of those months by the look of it; honestly, I feel someday that I should take the next flight down to Sydney and prop up at the Royal North shore hospital and proudly announce to the head nurse on duty that I would like to learn open heart surgery and ask if there is a surgeon around who can show me what to do and how to do it.
Yes we all can tell by looking at Barry that your head cannot grow from a 20 lb cantaloupe to a 40 pound watermelon in a few years.
Yes, I hope there'll be more Filipino pool champions in the future!
Yes, I will donate to this and make a promise that it will be a regular habit when I master Forex trading in the future.
Yes, even though I will be fifty-eight years of age in three months, nineteen days, please God that it is His Holy Will for me to live that long, of course, there are times when even my jaw drops (and my jaw really did drop, and not because I was, much like my late paternal grandmother, falling asleep as I ate a meal) when reading the incredibly apostate statements that emanate from Rome in its conciliar captivity.
Yes, they do, they set it like 3/4 years in the future.
Yes, this is going to be a good young team in the future.
Yes, you can reinstate the policy within six months from the date of lapse.
Yet another issue he would have to add to his growing list of things to ponder at some undetermined time in the future.
Yet despite its current legal status as a solely residential hotel, the current owners within one year began marketing rooms for rent to tourists -- in flagrant violation of the HCO -- advertising, "Whether traveling for business or pleasure, Gaylord Suites (formerly The Gaylord Hotel) combines the comforts and conveniences of home with the luxury of hotel service.
Yet in 23 years, the Department has never made even one public protest over the Israeli practice of torturing American citizens.
Yet in despite of this & in despite of the wretched taste [page ‘]of its proprietor which hampered & controlled me at all points I <obtained> in 15 months increased the circulation in I’ months to ‘,Soo.
Yet this event is clearly not going to happen unless the laws of gravity change dramatically in the next 30 years.
Yet, we are always look­ing absolute sat­is­fac­tion of your clients and our busi­ness rela­tion in the future.
Yet, within a year of its publication, The Hobbit had won the New York Herald Tribune prize for children's literature and was set to become a classic.
You Can Double your class in two years or less if someone in your group will give Friday nights to Jesus.
You agree that ClearFit may charge for certain features of your membership and/or additional premium services which may be offered in the future and that you will be responsible for all charges (including any tax thereon) for any such additional services if you choose to use them.
You and I may someday find ourselves witnessing to human dignity before the Judiciary Committee, in courtrooms, and even in acts of civil disobedience.
You are a very special lady and I hope I can meet you in person someday.
You are doing a little more than just thinking about what you want in the future with this.
You are even welcome just if you are at high risk for developing diabetes in the future!
You are given an huge army to defeat your opponents wonder in 2000 years.
You are in for a treet if you visit our home in the future then, because along with Luna who we just adore beyond our wildest dreams, we also have Fenris.
You are light years ahead of your predecessors.
You are more likely to be able to get agreement on a repayment plan if you show that you are receiving a lump sum of money soon or that your income will be going up soon so that you can afford to catch up and then keep making your payments on time in the future.
You blast Reagan and Milton for our current mess, yet ignore that fact that Reagan hasn't had any authority in 20 years and hat.
You both deserve success in the future.
You can add this page to your bookmarks to return to it in the future.
You can also avail the facility of domain name transfer, so that you can transfer your domain to any other registrar in the future, lest you have to stick with one registrar till the registration lasts.
You can also sign up for e-mail notification when such bikes are advertised in the future.
You can also sign up for e-mail notification when such cars are advertised in the future.
You can be sure that in the year ahead this will continue and accelerate.
You can begin by doing something adventurous for in the future - go up in a very balloon, or take a canoe trip down your favorite river.
You can change these settings at any point in the future via your telecoms control panel.
You can complete the exam within 1 Year of buying the Weight Management Certification.
You can easily conduct a dozen teleseminars in a years time and then combine them to create a high ticket product.
You can establish a deferred charitable gift annuity and specify the date in the future when your annuity payments will commence.
You can expect comments in the future on such diverse topics as the state of our government, the Internet, writing, horror, anthologies and novels, publishing, publishers, and magazines.
You can expect the content to be widely syndicated on sites such as Google News sometime in the future.
You can find a comparison in Italy which has had some 45 governments in 50 years, yet overall economic policy remains unchanged.
You can find out more information here  , but from the sound of things they're going to be doing this every Thursday until it gets too cold, so keep your eyes peeled for more bike-in movie events in the future.
You can gain 17 years of life simply by not going to medical school!
You can join any group class and refresh yourself in training techniques in the future.
You can prevent the debt of the new bills from hurting you too much in the future, but not the unlucky events from happening.
You can prioritize by asking yourself 7 important questions before you store an item: Will I use it again within a year?
You can repay it in a month provide you pay back the interest charges.
You can repay the loan in 5 years to 25 years.
You can then look forward to working with this team again in the future.
You can then reimburse yourself, tax-free, at any time in the future for medical expenses incurred over the ensuing years.
You can wish for things in the future to be different, but in this moment you have to accept things as they are.
You can withdraw in a day, two days, in a week, in a month or in a year.
You can't live in the future, but you can write there.
You cannot escape it, that someday all your vitality, all your energy, all your hopes and dreams for this world will be swallowed up in death.
You could also get ten different Direct legs in a year but never go Emerald.
You could give away a free product or service to any person that posts ten or more messages on your discussion in a month.
You could oftentimes come across an online casino that may require you to download their software before you play.
You could try waiting to see if they pop into your head someday, and they honestly might.
You couldn't beat me in a thousand years.
You create a new Managed Folder for Calendar items, and then create a Managed Content Setting for it to expire Calendar items in 1 year.
You desire anything worth your hard earned money and would likely last for years in the future.
You do not know when that time will come.
You go get a top designer like Michael Peters and have him design some hot new models that cover only the 80% you need (80% of your sales come from 20% of your models) and then contract out the production in the short run while you wait for some nice factories to be offered by the bankruptcy courts in the next few years.
You have not informed General Washington that in the future, the Confederacy will be reborn, as a platform and a podium for the greatest world wide Salvation Revival, and Christian Renewal in human history.
You have the right to know why you were turned down for a loan, and a good loan officer will advise you of steps you can take to be approved in the future.
You have your first job interview in a year tomorrow.
You haven’t exercised in 10 years?
You just would require a small texture for each number, then change the bridge mapping so that clock is actually made up of 4 textures in a row (tex tex : tex tex), and make a script to change the appropriate texture when the time comes (with the passing of time).
You keep on drinking, Riding your R1 and bowhunting and I wish you all the luck in the future.
You know this is gonna be the legendary end of summer super slam to tell your kids about someday!
You know, I feel that we are going to need the information we gained from these bowls someday.
You know, give all the researchers the kind of computer that will be the norm in a decade and see what happens.
You know, when hard times come, we find out who are friends are.
You licence us to use, modify, adapt, publish, display, sub-licence, create derivative works from and incorporate in other works, any material or content posted by you, at any time in the future in any form and for any purpose and you warrant that you have the right to grant this licence.
You may ask questions about Nora's work-in-progress (WIP) or any books to be published in the next 6 months .
You may be learning in a few months what it takes many of us decades to learn.
You may be using them in a different form in the future.
You may feel that this is the best decision for you and your husband at this time, but what about in the future?
You may find many new ways to use them in the future.
You may have a big vision for your practice that you cannot achieve in one year.
You may have initially saved up on expenses but in the future, more money will be spent for making an attempt to revive your business.
You may have seen commercials on television or magazines that claim you can lose weight while you sleep or lose 30 pounds in a month.
You may not have reality hit you in the face in the same way but here are 52 devotional life-changers that could transform you in a year - one week at a time.
You may not receive the correct level of discount in the future if you post applications directly to Fidelity.
You may see a 36% increase in store visits in three months for a restaurant, but those same numbers won’t equate to a car dealership where sales are few and far between on an individual consumer basis.
You may someday find exact diamond doors who knows.
You may want to consider a premium laminated asphalt shingle, which typically comes with a longer warranty and additional advantages that could save you money in the future.
You might not want a chance with your child now, but who's not to say that you might change your mind someday down the road?
You must be aware of the risks and be willing to accept them in order to invest in the futures and options markets.
You never know what might happen in the future but it just might include being asked back on much better terms.
You only get a couple of settings per function, but more could definitely be added in the future.
You ought to be retested for Hep B (there are several types of serologies available that may help determine when you were infected) and be tested for HIV, both now and in 6 months.
You receive a $100 credit on your credit card statement when you open the account and establish a qualifying direct deposit within three months.
You respect authority simply because you expect someday to have it.
You said more in those few minutes than I've been exposed to in 2 years.
You should always ask about how my family is doing, because in the future they may be your family, too.
You should definitely use him when the time comes.
You should note that the levels and bases of taxation could change in the future.
You think all your efforts are not wasted even if no one will want to use your code, and that likely your users will not be left alone in a few months.
You understand and agree that we may electronically provide to You disclosures, notices and statements regarding your use of the Bond, the debiting or crediting of your designated bank account or credit card, your relationship with us and/or other programs, products or services that are or may in the future be made available to You ("Communications").
You were my family and i will someday join you at those gates.
You will assist in hiring process, customers services and many more tasks in the future.
You will be able to choose which carrier/policy you would like to increase in the future if you decide to keep both.
You will be fine and will go on, no one knows what the jury will do and what the court will do when that time comes, but your silence and that of your attorney was deafening!
You will begin to apply for college in 6 months!
You will consult with the Group HR Director, line departments and L&D units so as to develop new business plans and objectives, and to update and agree the work plans for the year ahead and will advise on resource requirements, infrastructure needs and budgetary requirements for the area of responsibility.
You will end up making that money back in the future, but you have to be prepared to make the necessary investment first.
You will enjoy reflecting on them in the future!
You will get your “Pass Plus” certificate within one year after getting through the driving test.
You will hear of people gaining 20-40 pounds in a few months and never people getting small 1-2 pound gains a month.
You will not only affect your quality of life today, but many years in the future.
You will pay tax in one year (for the year you receive it) as if the lump sum amount was received in equal installments over 10 years (for the relief allowed in limited cases after 1999).
You will refer to it many times in the future and eventually it will become part of you.
You will see her someday.
You will understand why the owner of the company had 160 percent return in 9 months.
You won't need what you learn in this article, and I'll be modeling you for guidance in about three years.
You would think you will make big money in a few years, right?
You'd thank me in 20 years.
You'll be surprised how a little research on phone and service provider quality can save you a load of headaches in the future.
You'll begin your own list of investors this way, and you can notify them of properties you're selling in the future as well.
You'll find out which products or services your customers would like to see you sell in the future.
You'll meet him somewhere in a month.
You're also getting 60 unique backlinks per month, to each of your 5 websites - meaning you are getting a total of 300 backlinks in a month.
You're happy with your Sharp fax machine; you'll be just as happy with this Sharp thermal film roll when the time comes for replacement.
You're teaching about methods of consciousness transformation that are far more effective than anything I learned in eight years of training in psychotherapy.
Young people are introduced to the religion in J-school, where it also lives, but even if they skip the academies they learn it within a few years on the job.
Your DR logo will update itself automatically any time your DR changes, you never need to make any changes in the future to keep the DR logo on your directory right up to date!
Your challenge: In a month or two, when your hill opens, dedicate one day to un-progression.
Your chamber can offer services to meet your day-to-day needs as an owner or manager of a Childersburg business or an individual investing in the future of your community.
Your child can take ampicillin or amoxicillin in the future when necessary and only 5% of children get a rash again the next time.
Your credit counseling agent will be able to help with personal finance education so you do not get into a sticky situation in the future.
Your customers don’t need your product anymore, so you propose making them pay for it anyway, just in case they need it again someday?
Your father's company should not have taken on anyone in the same role within 3 months of his redundancy.
Your financial commitment enables the parish council to plan and budget for the parish's expenses and programs for the upcoming year.
Your financial support will help us to implement hardware and software upgrades that will improve the speed and stability of our servers (and thereby allow you to avoid seeing this page in the future).
Your give great articles, it can be used for anticipate other problems in the future.
Your psychic will interpret that response in detail by using the focus questions to tell you what is happening now, what to look out for in the future, and what directions you may need to take in order to avoid certain fates.
Your service was impeccable from my end of the spectrum, and I look forward to working with you in the future.
Your thinking integrates experiences of the past with a clear vision of the possibilities in the future.
Your time will come.
Your vehicle will be worth whatever you can sell it for in the future and that depends on how well you maintain it.
Youth Relationship Education: Youth relationship education equips young people with the skills and knowledge they need to lead healthy romantic lives now and in the future.
You’ll be able to satisfy more customers in less time and the enhanced quality of your work will lead to more customer referrals, guaranteeing you plenty of work in the future.
You’re saying that something in the future causes something in the past.
You’ve got to break it down—plan only a year ahead, mentally and emotionally.
Yuan Shikai proceeded in the next few years to abolish the national and provincial assemblies and declared himself emperor in 1915 (.
Z is currently engaged in a 2 year, 345 hours, postgraduate diplomate program of study in Clinical Neurology for Chiropractors, also offered by the Carrick Institute for Postgraduate Studies.
Zecco is a felxible brokerage and will meet the needs of many different types of investors – from the investor who buys and holds ETFs (such as myself) to the day trader who makes dozens of trades in a month.
Zeenews Bangkok  : Fresh from a two-month training tour of Portugal  , India  take on Thailand  in their first international match in one year here tomorrow but captain Bhaichung Bhutia is a doubtful starter due to his recent bout with illness.
Zero Interest if paid in 12 months!
Zeus would look at Hayden in the complete and adoring way you privately wished and wished and wished that someone, someday, might look at you.
Zimmerman was not drafted out of college, headed to France where he learned a slider for coach Greg Hamilton with Montpeliier, made the Winnipeg Goldeyes in the independent Northern League and within two years was pitching at Fenway Park in an all-star game.
Zippers were still in the future.
Zixia and the Longevity Monk are eventually captured by King Bull, who wants to take Zixia as a concubine, and Joker falls off a cliff and ends up back at Waterfall Cave, where he meets an older incarnation of Grandpa Buddha (who in this lifetime is a bandit) and finds Jingjing, who at this point knows nothing of the affair that she and Joker have in the future.
Zuckerman said he couldn’t make political contributions – when he’s made 12 contributions to candidates in 13 years, 10 to Democrats.
[09:05] Orthodox Church consecrated in China for first time in 50 years (issue6718.
[2] (#_ftn2) Geyh and Schleicher[3] (#_ftn3) show in the 20 years since Dalrymple's book (reference 2), that the understanding of the physical systems and the methodologies had improved to an extent, that under certain circumstances the method can be employed on rocks "a few thousand years old".
[The tables may be “static” in the sense that they rely exclusively on past experience or “cohort” in the sense that they attempt to project the number of survivors likely to exist in the future.
[[[[[[[[[[ OUR VIEW ]]]]]]]]]] Two surgeries on one knee in 2 months is not a good sign.
[munk] can be seen in upcoming months, performing around his hometown of Boston.
The Zen of Social Media Marketing (Book Review) I was extremely enthralled by her story and was immediately drawn to her love of Social Media and the power of Social Media in the future of business on a whole.
healthy for the industry overall and should lead to above average returns in the future.
_ Right fielder Ryan Kenning (junior, North Vancouver, BC) is one big reason that the New Mexico State Aggies own a 6-0 record -- the school's best start in 13 years.
____________________________________________ So here I sit in Florida, and in ten years I have not seen one house or building with solar panels.
a gopher can develop up to thirty dirt mounds in a month, with no visible openings or exits.
a key document that would outline the terms of withdrawal and whether the site could be reconsidered in the future.
a permanent heritage for Brit-Am Ephraimite knowledge that others may have recourse to in the future.
a person whom i can share my life with and build a family in the future.
a target of Pellicano, got over 1,000 calls in two months.
after you’re done, you still have 125 Mb extra to download customized items, map corrections in the future.
aimed at slashing greenhouse gas emissions in the next four decades.
also you have a body of cash to buy the extra bits that we all like to spend the pennies on and get another new set o tyres when the time comes.
and I believe from what I have heard the company is really right behind the IBOs now and really wanting us to reach that 12Billion mark in the next few years.
and I look forward to working with you in the future".
and Russian arms-control negotiators have reached an "agreement in principle" on the first nuclear-arms-reduction treaty in nearly two decades, administration and arms-control officials said Tuesday.
and South Korea in the Sea of Japan held joint military exercises at sea and in the future will hold a series of military exercises against the DPRK's "blatant provocation" and also the international community hopes to ease tension on the Korean Peninsula, the "undisguised challenge.
and fear of being able to give a healthy birth in the future.
and hope to find a good controller in the future.
and i am going to saudiarabia in next 6 months.
and i hope someday be like you, Sabine!
and i want it to say in the Future Too!
and if any1 tries to add me on live it wont work since i havnt logged in in 3 months.
and in 25 years I haven't yet found a heavyweight tourer I like better, but it's now getting a bit heavy for my aging bones so I treated myself to a new toy.
and it will be paid off within a few years.
and join the Chargers volleyball team in the future.
and lastly Isabelles project 'Around the World in 50 Years' has been renamed to Sammys Adventures: The Secret Passage and is scheduled for a europe release in August 2010 however there is no word on a USA release.
and other automakers want to sell consumers electric cars powered by hydrogen within six years.
and sometimes i come off mean when i dont mean to be.
and use our memories to influence what we do in the future….
and with the size of that box, I just had to add it to my collection someday.
any chance to see a female version in the future?
anyways i think its more so a legacy thing then anything else, nirvana was a very popular and hot band in the early 90's for about two years, and in that two years they were ontop of the world.
arsenal have not had a league game not sell out in 14 years.
artname=Dream Board-How Does It Influence Our Vision of Life In the Future?
as for the closet i just gave them there last drink today, im gonna cut em down on wednesday, and soon i will have a new camera so when that time comes ill be sure to git sum pics of my buds!
ask you to imagine what you would want history to be reporting about your actions and achievements in 10 years time.
asp) - so sorry it wasn't a bigger order but will remember you in the future.
asp) from BMI about employment coverage under the Bush administration found that just over half the stories focused on job losses and downplayed gains in a year that saw 2 million jobs created.
asp) | The Year Ahead (/year-ahead/default.
asp) | The Year Ahead (year-ahead/default.
assistance as the new Suharto regime slaughtered perhaps 1/2 million or more people in a few months, mostly landless peasants.
at first i dint like at all as she’s my cousin bt somedays later i agreed 2 him n we made a plan 2 rape her.
atmosphere every year comes from driving cars.
au to a few friends and will continue to do so in the future.
autism rates rose dramatically in the 20 years or so before 2000, a period in which mercury exposure to infants from thimerosal nearly tripled, primarily because many more childhood vaccines were developed.
auto industry sales are now forecast at the lowest levels in 26 years,” Krafcik said.
b=Call_option) is the right (not obligation) to buy stock in the future at a fixed price and a put option (?
b=Put_option) is the right (not obligation) to sell stock in the future at a fixed price.
back as long as you notify as within a month of receiving your order.
back pain, face swelling two month after urine tract infection (back-pain--face-swelling-two-month-after-urine-tract-infection-9170) (Answered) - Viewed 576 times My mother, 56 yr old, had blood in unrine two month ago after she took a long flight and was diagnosed as urine tract infection .
basketball goal on sidingThe Cypress siding around this goal has been battered by thousands of basketballs and has only been refinished twice in 8 years.
because it shows offer to purchase in the future, not present intent to contract).
believes that in 50 years we may find evidence of alien life in ancient permanent forst of Mars or on other planers.
benefit within 10 years.
besides fixing the problem now, in the future they should have a shutt off valve every 5 or 10 miles!
better in the future.
btw, when my son was getting chemo treatments he was infused with major amounts of prednisone and he ended up gaining 40 pounds in six months.
bullet2 “Our session was invaluable”… I have learned more in this – than in six months of learning-as-you-go-along.
but in six months I've yet to have a chance at fucking Carol myself.
but know that someday life will be better.
buy Real Estate now will be crushed in the future.
can end its reliance on foreign oil sources within the next two decades, or not?
can try to predict what they think the weather or climate will be in the future, but ultimately it is not their decision.
capital bill – the first capital bill the state has seen in ten years – that has led to five positive months of job growth in Illinois.
carbon-free sources within 10 years.
cfm#hydrogenecon) sometime in the future.
cfm) Fifty church leaders have come together to discuss the vital issue of the “missing generation” of 18-30s in our churches, in the first of a number of regional symposiums the Evangelical Alliance is hosting across the country in the next six months.
cha'c tui se co' 40 years old virgin at my house in 41 years.
cn reports on excavations taking place in the 3000 year old Chinese city of Jinsha (p://china.
Melindais also the author of the national bestsellerBecome Your Own Boss in 12 months; A Month-by-Month Guide to a Business That Works  .
- we dropped $50k in debt in a year, and learned to tell our money where to go vs.
66 to 124 floors in six months!
After years of over promising and under delivering, the solar Industry is finally starting to show some interesting developments which have the potential to make solar power as cheap as fossil fuel on a cost-per-watt basis within five years.
It was a long time coming but this video is certainly the cream of the crop when it comes to my English language learning videos.
The Earth receives more energy from the Sun in an hour than the human race uses in a year.
again in the future if the need arises.
alone and more opportunities arecoming upin the future!
and other outlets emphasized the “fastest pace” of job creation in 10 years.
email in your Junk Mail folder, click "This is not Junk Mail" to avoid having e-mail from the same source sent to the Junk Mail folder in the future.
in the future.
is not just a site, it is a ministry and I believe God is using HIS plans and will continue to do so in the future.
offers services according to terms and condition listed below and might change in the future prior notice.
tells the story of how a simple man was able to build his own multi-million business in 3 years by creating a system that makes his money for him.
-- New home construction surged to the highest level in four months in August, a government report showed Tuesday.
I like Danny Coll; if he gets his business and private life straightened out, he might make a good county commissioner in four years and his Cuban origin might come in real handy if/after the US normalizes relations with Cuba.
for more Show Magazine Models in the future.
in the future of Web services.
in the future, may make chat rooms, forums, message boards, and/or news groups available to its users.
">bamboo</a> as an alternative product made from renewable resources, that can help make a difference in the future of our planet.
) to host the Olympics in the future.
Sports/Will+someday+playing+musical+cities/1622480/story.
This community is oriented on bringing together user groups based on their interests with the purpose meeting in the future in person.
mercialise the battery as early as in four years, but added it is too early to comment on sales targets.
panies invested in computers, communications equipment and machinery, boosting capital goods orders for the third time in four months, according to the Commerce Department.
petition, I would think that the competition allowed for in this situation would drive innovation while at the same time fostering cooperation through workers working together perhaps as the prerequisite for greater economic cooperation in the future (although I believe a continuation of market-socialism would be adequate.
conduct in the past permits an inference that the parent will continue this behavior in the future.
congrats 2 both ghetto and MadMonk 4 improving so much in 1 year.
content=band&left=grade&top=faq&bandId=2360&grade=12) In The Future (index.
content=band&left=grade&top=faq&bandId=532&grade=11) Baroque In The Future (index.
content_id=660) ) ZDNet: Enterprise: Microsoft: Big plans for Great Plains  : Microsoft to rewrite Great Plains' apps in two years in C#.
could make $52 billion in taxes from sports books in the next decade if Internet betting was allowed, Congressman Barney Frank plans to hold hearings on legalizing Internet gambling.
couldnt let her go too long without water or she would lose her vigor, i fed them regularly tho and didnt have any problems as far as that goes, speakin of that one of my true blue from my last grow was my biggest id yielders, i think i got about 3 oz off one plant in a 3 month span from once it sprouted which is pretty impressive.
course in record keeping within six months from.
court’s finding that Teel is likely to commit family violence in the future.
dearly within the next five years.
debt consolidation service does not only eliminate your negative information from your personal credit file, but it can help you get credit in the future.
default=spotlight&artid=45296) Royal Roads University (Royal Roads) allows students to complete a bachelor's degree in one year or two.
degree in one year?
delays the adjustment of Europe for two centuries; and Napoleon catches up the two hundred years and completes the national development in a decade.
deposits in that South American country, which blew the lid off the top of the dangers that the world was facing now and in the future.
dey sometime come up to me a ask.
distance of 115 km in 12 months.
dog to his fourth home in under four months.
dollar fell on Monday to its lowest in a month against the Yen as worries about the spread of the swine flu from Mexico prompted investors into perceived safe-haven currencies such as the Yen and the CHF.
dollars), would recoup the investment within five years.
dont worry chillin , i cant pla that far out either, i just try and wing it and then make it work when the time comes!
dtd'><html><head><title>Article Powerplant | Creed Tickets - Creed Reunion, Tour and Album</title></head><body><h3>Creed Tickets - Creed Reunion, Tour and Album</h3><br><br> By: Brent Warnken<br><br><p>All four original Creed band members Scott Stapp, Mark Tremonti, Scott Philips and Brian Marshall will reunite this summer for a tour (the band's first in seven years) and new album.
dtd'><html><head><title>The Free Article Depot | Comparing Lesson Transcriptions as an Alternative to Video Observation</title></head><body><h3>Comparing Lesson Transcriptions as an Alternative to Video Observation</h3><br><br> By: Allan HS<br><br><p>Through discussion, it transpired that this was the first time in ten years of teaching that Ti had videotaped one of her lessons.
duodenum) in a 54 year old male has been reported.
duodenum) in a 54 year old male is reported.
e) Asked to "stand-by" for a possible call in the future.
e-mail; and we will try to display that item in the future.
ePub may be up and coming and become a big deal in the future as the “standard” but right now, it’s not even close.
economic recovery in the future?
economy to improve in the next six months, while only 28 percent expect things to get worse.
eight times in 10 years with seven different quarterbacks.
endorsed our global effort to lock down all vulnerable material within four years.
=-VkOBPoKuQglcsznDSP54VB84-4ICYVTJHfxD0ajaApyUHqOjwZhWmIVgf9QlreM0XRbCgTL7cuDZWqwgYdxKRueOxMNM6AsDQg78IH1dWnLsO-KUozjAaETzYF7Y4Crv7YYZtio801IQzf4MGBLhdszjlTlz1JqAyPCkJMD2R-6wC6oE6PwNiFmgqBkXLDAdCsIxdjk5E5rFhIEUoY3oxieGdXpuZGaenYFyFMlENs2z6DDcd0jWG061XwyCFEAjZ7Z4gQrRSlrhROpnkLu_AN_8BhzBuR1EiSkVZ50GRiRemvPvtOnr3x3OUy1JNtPAwQdIK5xtPzyIkomdNEjr6RCsnse4EJOMegkJVVTnlBbBN4pNRDluktcEQJSwZq61xuSZDYOJQ-UYUBdyK03qDE0MATychA38eBKNNUhKrbS-IaxKggTdEBJoP1lLWBW2gOeTWa5Py8G3BAd8JyuKuvLSmyvCi1E0eQMg5Sqaiwsoz4tx-dZLopp266_0dhdiZr5vlKugUzFbWnTcnDHnBJGnrC4PW9ezuPKKlwVyON1xu-dmWCG3CaZCiJ4JqrDK3wNMqyz9vmgKjvsICvYO2TWXND7Udf35Xma_uYIPYcZUMG5EShxagwrzLW-kJAEIyh-3HEFFJ166uDgSfDH4sHAtbkpLQBJCpWJVxYuSELCZ9x53TysZKSlvcRqW5SiPUsVGwIzKkorYkCzINIYLIDzLgEp-77mVf1m4kqOdCyBohH4rn49CX5_wa14xKJk7psG4qRmzVaUdTl0uzBBtX0cuEhFX952irBsZKAB9aARTJgY5Yl6mgBAg6aMGjQAAABAA6BpGtRDaKJNT0EEADQAAECjIdoIPU1txDQ1TXmKUJuYNE09GaCNpkbTU8aoaWIy8iRTZso01bCgG-YuAkDw__-_8P_6v_L_A0MAUIBfNAAAxTfujllTJllBMTZoWkJ5AwAA8A) Get your Degree in Education Media Design & Technology in 12 Months!
=2An5YeLNvxwGqkBm9g9GVJASmF6HhMIpkrv40yZ1Au9wx6CuA4tnIbBgs13VpDMa8VKwo4HAP2Ed5XPEsfGueU-5yJTZWPTUh64mEPFMGNCaaoUo1wGhTB7V45UNEWEkK4ZGHS1yC6UPk7KwLC1VIARzKyNGRBAykfS2tRJZYxYb-64KC_alrvwxqVa0LE5kcHWSipQElomCyuQVR0NmhjLufVWRT11dJwOEPo5j3JOQxEyICQrCP4o6D-ID_XRAmlqARwAztx6OgVBQQ7L4Mj45JqKAqRx3tuW2OvlcK--brKfYl0qt84x-sSEwJkay1poGcdOCgDGEm6PpdpDUgsPSx4PsIq6podsMsY0dyc0LTAzNDUXfUmzR4W74rsQnbX58FIwKcNw5CZmoVdKNMEF-RL8rPZSilwaIgegpo5kmjcioBAA0NNAUT5OeeqpRz1QJ6hFqTE-1J4qflBGTZsqmGjYTbQEwoP__vwAA8P8BQABAgNsoAABSAtPrWVMmWUExNmhaQgsCAADw) Within five years of the design of Baer's game systems, .
everytime i wanted to start trying i waited for sex until i had the dishcharge and i was always pregnant within a few months.
execution, the result of bureaucratic coincidence, was the 1st in Texas in 3 years.
expert php coder min 5 years experience (/getafreelancer/2008/09/AJAX-Javascript-OsCommerce-PHP-SEO-coder-experience-expert-min-php-years-320681.
fibroadenoma by ultrasound and mammography, short term follow-up and re-imaging can be considered (usually performed in 6 months).
finally rebounded in the first quarter of this year, the first year-over-year increase in two years and the biggest since the first quarter of 2006.
finds sources of inexhaustible interest in all that surrounds it; in the objects of nature, the achievements of art, the imaginations of poetry, the incidents of history, the ways of mankind, past and present, and their prospects in the future.
first in 10 years for Paul, both said they would return.
fix it right when the time comes.
for today and in the future.
for well-designed, low cost, 'green' energy saving vehicles -- and we think we have the right products at the right time -- that in a few years also will begin to meet anticipated growing demand domestically.
frame and you get a guy I would be stunned to see playing in this league in five years time as a regular starter.
fs goal of doubling wind, solar, and biofuels production within 3 years may indeed be a worthwhile policy, but it is not consistent Pennsylvania issues funding, enacts carbon credit trading http://www.
gah, i thought he would someday crack his head!
girlfriend committed family violence against him and was likely to commit family violence in the future.
give them a good watering and in a month the plant will look the one shown in the photo.
go ahead and get another three or four so in a few months you can ask “i am three months behind on two of my credit cards will this be a bad mark on my credit rating.
got paid more to sign than most players made in 5 years, .
h) said, "A time will come upon the people when a person will wander about with gold as Zakat and will not find anybody to accept it, and one man will be seen followed by forty women to be their guardian because of scarcity of men and great number of women.
happens in the next year and how things go in Iraq.
has come a long way in one year.
have an impact on the way similar cases are handled in the future.
have never in 24 years seen an illegally parked car ticketed or towed!
havent been to the club in about 2 years.
he asked the UC nazims to identify feasible development projects within one month.
he'll be back someday!
here is my gear, it is still my rookie gear, but im upgrading to cooler gear in a month or so, just want to show you the gear i have had for two years.
hoaping this wont be me in 3 years.
hometown have in common: faith in the future.
hope this helps you in the future.
hope to be an owner someday…….
hope to see you soon on stage and who knows, maybe play together someday.
hopefully here in a few months ill be growin from clone and cuttin down qp's instead of oz's then ill be set.
hopefully one of my works can be featured on ur bloggs someday!
how they might rule on certain kinds of case in the future).
htm#en21) The defendants faced prison terms ranging from 96 years for Virginia McMartin to 776 years for Raymond Buckey.
htm#h8659) with the navy of Hiram: once in three years came the navy of Tharshish (40H-8600.
htm) may be called to establish the package to be used in the future (with a form like (setf (initial-package (configuration *ide-system*)) :mypackage), replacing :mypackage with a keyword naming the package you want), or the value may be set interactively in the list of all configuration options displayed by the Tools | Inspect System Data (.
htm) to receive clearance sale announcements and new merchandise notices and you will be entered in a monthly drawing to Win a $50.
, yet within four years it had soared to become Harley-Davidson's best-selling non-Sportster model.
04/29/06 "Tough Times Ahead for Energy" Transcript (.
ESA: Investing in the future (/EN/post/1236191821-1/EN-/esa-investing-in-the-future.
Guy Hunt elected first Republican governor of Alabama in 112 years on this day in history.
emerged to prominence, annihilating the Liao Dynasty in 10 years.
from in the future to another.
in the future, you will need to enter the required data manually for the first time and save the data to the program by selecting the Save form data to Password Manager XP item on the browser’s popup menu (or by selecting the same item in the program’s tray menu) or press the hotkey Ctrl+Alt+S.
will someday be one himself.
| Read The Bible in One Year (kjv20/readyear.
i am positioning myself into rentals right now to try to make the most out of the people who cant afford a house in the next 5 years.
i asked them for help for a reason and would pay them back in full within a month and they didnt even want to help me, i have always felt like im not liked and its always me making a effort would you say anything or am i over reacting?
i brought my friend bianka along for the shoot and i hadn’t seen her in a year so, we had a blast together.
i do have the gut feeling that the current design will make us headaches in the future and this place should collect design requirements for i18n and check whether they are met by the current system, to help either substantiate or discard them.
i dont want to upset you but i want to tell you myself that i am allowed to have the laparoscopy operation and i found out today that my con put me on the list so hopefully will have had lap with in 3 months time.
i had been smoking all my teenage hood, on again off again, but over the last year and a half i had been smoking heavily, 5-10 joints a day just to feel normal, i guess i had to crash someday.
i have 3 boys now in AGS and while i do hope that they’d also attend UP someday, i’m not too sure how i would take it should they become activists too.
i have a 3 mile drama free area around me which i love to maintain a yearly subscription on.
i have a whole in my eardrum does smoking prevent it from healing two months paper sucked in to the eardrum (i-have-a-whole-in-my-eardrum-does-smoking-prevent-it-from-healing-two-months-pap-10234) (pending) - Viewed 167 times does smoking interfair with a whole ineradrum not to heal paper stuffed in ear drum some how went in and two months still drivin.
i have to establish my profesional career first and someday i will get what i want.
i haven’t lost a fight in about 6 months.
i hope i get to tell you my full testimony someday.
i just want to ask one thing, can anyone here escape working(unless you plan to rob a bank), then why to fear the inevitable, go face it and fall in love………the thing with working is like, initially you will feel happy learning new things, later you will feel bored of doing it, and believe me guys a time will come, when you can’t stay away from the so-called boring, routine, mundane work……i have seen many retired people regretting being away from their loved work, thats love for work, so no worries and i can list out bloody good number of positive things about this PO thing….
i raced these for two years with many feature wins and rookie of the year,i never finished any lower then 4th in two years.
i tried intermittent hormonal thereby twice but the psa became 4 ng/ml within two month after the treatment and my doctors stopped using this regime with me.
i was put on it again 5 months ago after a breakdown but i only lasted 5 days the sxs were shocking and i am still struggling now although i don't think it's from the Efexor.
i will surely come back to you people in the future.
i wish to be a star someday taray db?
i,m deeply ashamed of our greatest ever manager and his 7 trophys including 2 doubles and an unbeaten season in 14 years.
id=1346183) left off in terms of tugging at your heartstrings—quite an accomplishment in a year where substance and style have been sorely lacking at the local cineplex.
ideally, would like to start selling OLED lights in about three years.
if he planned to reopen it in the future, or if he would continue with previously announced plans for a downtown restaurant called “Your Mother’s,” although plans for the restaurant had been put on temporary hold for financial reasons.
if that is the case I see a big problem in the future once this hits mainstream…… im wondering the huge potebtional(typo) of any maybe bugs of repetition” …… “dude.
im i pregant ornotor should u go se i doctor in person (im-i-pregant-ornotor-should-u-go-se-i-doctor-in-person-9128) (Answered) - Viewed 1391 times i usually have my period twice a month now it only came on once in te lat two months yes iam sexually active but i dont think im.
importance of being well prepared in the future, and not rushing to answer questions.
in 20 years, we will be able to go down to the weed store and buy an eighth.
in 3 months I sang this song.
in 40 years.
in 5 years or less.
in 9 years.
in Astrophysics in the Next Decade: JWST and Concurrent Facilities, Astrophysics & Space Science Library, Thronson, H.
in Hazleton if/when I need any chiropractic work in the future.
in a few months.
in a few years from now Adrian may be reading this thread and saying "Dad?
in any 1 year of.
in one month.
in one months time.
in order that they might eat in the seven years of empty husks.
in seven months without really dieting at all.
in the case of actual trading and marketing of petroleum products, divestment of 26% equity in favour of India partner/public within 5 years.
in the future by submitting a new copy of this form.
in the future i might try to make a new pet system that would make it easier to make new animals, and for other people to help.
in the future shouldnt we have an intenational peace keeping force come to oversee U.
in the future.
in the upcoming year.
including the installation of our new MD for Amway UK/ROI (14TH OR 15TH IN 15 YEARS) and the fact that it is RESTRICTED ,and the fact that the Court Appeal has still to be heard I dont think there is an overwhelming number of people out there showing the plan just yet.
increased from 180 to about one million insects within five years and caused defoliation in some areas.
industry — when conditions are favorable, as they are now, and when they may not tilt quite so much toward the United States, as they surely will do at some indeterminate point in the future.
interesting, might come in handy someday.
is a company I would definitely be on the lookout for to become much more well-known in the future, since the Schmaps Beta truly unites exploration and socialization, in a fun and effective way.
is likely to be deprecated in the future, when the IEEE 802.
is the fifth largest managing general underwriter in North America, and although Smith is no longer involved in the company’s operations, he is confident it will continue to prosper in the years ahead.
is … Wibrain i1 will be on the market in 3 months.
it was terrible, she got 8 ear infections in 4 months, and then got tubes as a 1st birthday present lol!
itself within a year in reduced monthly charges.
it’s ashame you have to leave and everyone wants you to not leave but anyways… Good-luck in the future guys!
i’m getting married in 3 months on the beach mexico and would love to be at least 20 lbs.
(guardian) A dead whale has been found pinned to the bow of a cruise ship off the coast of Alaska, the third such incident in a decade.
The Dodge Challenger Super Sport Concept built by Mopar, could someday stand among the greatest factory production race cars of the 1960s, and like those factory race models, this new Super Stock Concept is packed with a high horsepower Hemi.
kobe has done more in three years than lebron will do in a lifetime.
leader in the future, but in the right moment, I think the5.
life in the future.
link building PR3+ sites 20 sites in 1 month (/getafreelancer/2008/08/PR3-SEO-building-link-month-sites-298587.
look out for some growth in OZ in the next few years.
lucas) There’s the moon asking to stay Long enough for the clouds to fly me away Well it’s my time coming, I’m not afraid, afraid to die My fading voice sings of love But she cries to the clicking of time, Wait in the fire… And she weeps on my arm Walking to [.
mSpot’s Streaming Music Service For Android Phones Tops 500K Downloads In Two Months  23.
magical, romantic night together in Vienna, ending with the promise to meet again in six months ("Before Sunrise").
major force in the future.
make it like 100,000 per-week not 18,20 million in 5 years.
market for it in the future.
maximum interest on your entire savings balance over the months ahead.
means that in 5 years this country (USA) will be in deep trouble paying all debts (helathcare, social security, services) and the result my friend, more taxes, recession, less money.
might come in handy someday.
more importantly is WHY would the leafs put together a huge package when NASH is a free ageent in a year?
more than $80 billion in clean energy through its Recovery Act - including the largest-ever investment in renewable energy, which will double our generation of clean renewable energy like wind and solar in three years.
more than $80 billion in clean energy through its Recovery Act including the largest-ever investment in renewable energy, which will double our generation of clean renewable energy like wind and solar in three years.
more than I typically had in 6 months before reading your book.
mortgage approvals rose to the highest level in a year in April, the Bank of England said today.
mpg zip files britney someday mp3 virtual dj free complete black eye peac mp3 Alcohol120 .
my conclusion is that septic and the rangers will be of equal footing this time come april .
my friend runs a kiosk at the mall selling Jakks UFC figures and he is on pace to lose $9000 in 12 months.
my psa dropped to zero within 3 months after thereby and all mets.
my sister will be going in 4 years, I hope she takes more photos!
net is a concept application of noninvasive brain stimulation using pulsed ultrasound, which is likely to emerge in the future.
new investment was made in the three months to September 30, double the amount seen in the first quarter of 2009.
next whereas the main reward of the righteous will be in the Future Life.
nor will I be in the future, I do think the idea is great.
not necessarily be valid in the future.
nursing home attention, in the future if whatsoever.
nz  Facebook Has 'Worst Outage In 4 Years' - KSAT San Antonio  Coming soon: T-Vevo - New York Post  9/11 Candlelight Vigil in Tewksbury - Wilmington Town Crier  Web streaming lets Dakota County voters watch candidate forums at their convenience - Pioneer Press  FCC opens up 'white spaces' for broadband - Seattle Times  Curated by the Guggenheim - The Philadelphia Inquirer  iPhone App explores, reveals Israeli settlements - Cleveland Jewish News  Facebook 'credits' looking to usurp Google text ads - Toronto Star  Microsoft released a beta of Internet Explorer 9 - Evansville Courier & Press  YouTube acquitted of copyright violation in Spain - CIOL  Nestle, Apple, AstraZeneca, Google, Simply Orange: Intellectual Property - Bloomberg  Twitter tweaked to hold users, lure ads - Sydney Morning Herald  The GOP 'Pledge': What's Not In It - The Huffington Post  Obama DOJ Objects To DADT Injunction - The Huffington Post  YouTube wins court case in Spain on intellectual property - New Kerala  Kerry O’Brien steps down from ABC’s 7.
of CO2 in the next three decades.
of mine I hadn't seen in 40 years.
of power within 10 years, its mines and energy minister said on Tuesday.
ok i bought a 1981 honda cb900f super sport about a year ago previous to that it had not run in 2 years.
only to produce a report in 2 years that will most likely say we need to do more R&D.
option=com_community&view=profile&userid=1197&Itemid=1) Had my first orgasm in 18 months.
or NEED to take in the future.
or a disappearing spouse can reduce a family from solidly middle class to newly poor in a few months.
or are you possibly planning on adding them in the future?
and search farmville  to find new scripts or updates for Greasemonkey in the future!
as a mirror for this in the future?
site in the future release) and to browse the result in the eclipse edit area.
a royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable, non-exclusive right and license to use, copy, modify, display, archive, store, disseminate, reproduce and create derivative works from such information, in any form, media, software or technology of any kind now existing or developed in the future.
">James Quinney</a>, who designed my new site and moved everything over; something I could not have done in a million years.
Beyond App Engine, what role do you think Python will play in the Cloud both now and in the future?
out to be a small jackpot for the university, as Currie said the devices are predicted to pay themselves off within 16 months.
p=45242#45242) Posted: Mon Jan 18, 2010 7:18 pm Post subject: Cancelling Accounts in the future?
p=69675#69675) Posted: Thu Jul 31, 2008 9:45 pm Post subject: The first marijuana decriminalization bill in 25 years Reply with quote (posting.
pated in the future that other policies will be created (Multi-Level Security for example).
perhaps in the future i can get a slab and see what it looks like.
perhaps the are keeping the depos sealed till 2027 so that they can bring it up again just as they will in 25 years when the “basement tapes” are up for review & possible release again.
periodic seasonal flavors in the future.
If you are planning to resell your car in the future and buy a new and more advanced model, then you have to exert more effort in keeping it in good shape and excellent driving condition.
Traveling in a Recreational Vehicle is, by most accounts, a fun, relaxing and enjoyable time to create some incredible stories that your grandchildren will someday enjoy.
What home improvements really pay off when the time comes to sell your house?
car repair facility and a full selection of Mopar Parts for any needs you may have in the future.
to make sure we keep you informed of new postings of jobs in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, Middle East in the future.
to make sure we keep you informed of new postings of jobs in Badakhshan, Afghanistan in the future.
to make sure we keep you informed of new postings of jobs in Nimruz, Afghanistan in the future.
will someday be a solid NFL quarterback, but he's too inexperienced with the pro style offense to expect much productivity this season.
2003) that in three years under the Bush administration the Education Department's overall funding would have increased by $13.
29-Takeshi-Matsu-Kill-The-Bear-Someday-Part-1?
Myocardial_infarction) within a few months.
North_Atlantic_Treaty_Organization) (NATO), America's first "entangling" European alliance in 170 years.
plus, y'know, he's going to get old and die someday if you don't.
probably in 15 years.
procrastination and procrastination on that same task in the future.
promise to enter contract not performable in one year).
prosperity in the future for all demographics.
reached their highest level in five years between April and June, showing an increase of 11 percent in comparison to the same period in 2009.
remember chamber music, architecture, imagine an African jazz club ten years ahead.
reporting the news has changed in 140 years.
resemblance to anyone living, dead or born in the future, is purely coincidental.
return to the gospel, for test results or a heart to be healed (regardless the circumstances), the better use of our time now determines if time will be our friend or our enemy in the future.
s=recording) the highest temperature for the first 10 days of July in 50 years.
sell at a reasonable price in the future, regardless.
she and siblings elva (102) and verl (93) died within a 2 month period.
sign me up in four years, i think i can do that too!
signed the “Four Treaty of Alliance”, states: Parties of the four countries in 20 years, the use of force to maintain Vienna the arrangements.
significant value for their shareholders in the months ahead.
sleeper to fussy in 4 months flat.
so this problem can be avoided in the future, you will never have a spill bigger than what is inside the 5 or 10 miles of pipping!
soils Add 25 ounces of hydrated lime per square yard in peaty soils Correction of an overly acid soil should be considered a long term project, rather than trying to accomplish it in one year .
someday in prayer of holy tongues, you will be greatly amazied…of being john 16:15 you did not chose me, but I have CHOSEN YOU….
someday maybe but until I do what I can and am grateful.
someday reconsider and return to us.
someday soon I will help my kids with their homework, or coach one of their sports teams, or just be there when my two year old learns something new.
someday to hear your voice?
someday we will meet again.
someday, i will be an author of poetry books, too.
someday.
someday2323.
somedaysmarter.
someday…I wish….
something that the team plans to keep working on in the future.
status=No Menstrual cycle in 4 months and I want to conceive a child http://askmedicaldoctor.
stunning region can be enjoyed, both now and in the future.
sufficiency of the evidence to support a finding that family violence is likely to occur in the future.
team claimed its first victory over Canada at the Winter Olympics in 50 years, holding off the host of the Vancouver Games 5- 3 in the last game of pool A here on Sunday.
tellurium However, First Solar's cells use tellurium, a relatively rare element, which could limit the number that can be built in a year.
than $80 billion in clean energy through its Recovery Act – including the largest-ever investment in renewable energy, which will double our generation of clean renewable energy like wind and solar in three years.
thanks, maybe i’ll be using 1x1gb and 1x2gb configuration then buy another 2gb if i have some extra cash in the future.
that Teel would commit family violence in the future.
that efforts to certify the reserves could begin within three years.
that some time in the future may be once again taken up and developed.
that's the first time i come here.
the Australian remote-sensing technology under development could someday find uses in space exploration to augment the characterisation of planets, moons or asteroids in far-flung corners of the solar system.
the United States will be able to provide the resources needed for India to become a more energy efficient country in the future.
the cost of electricity in the next few years will depend on a number of variables including the price of carbon.
the money saved will go back to MDHA and reduce the amount of federal subsidies needed in the future, Ryan said.
the price has tripled in about three years ?
the program which is making the biggest difference in my 60 year old noggin is Mind Sparke by Martin Walker.
the question is "How will your life be different as your new attitude continues into upcoming situations in the future?
the time [in the KTBM] to present content, three sessions in a year is not enough, the literacy [key teacher] program met regularly over two years, this program [KTBM] no comparison, just a handful of days .
thechaser wrote: I believe from what I have heard the company is really right behind the IBOs now and really wanting us to reach that 12Billion mark in the next few years.
they can get backed up to your computer so you could always put them back in the future.
they could have said that the CPSC would be free to lower the lead standard in the future if necessary to protect public health and safety (taking into account the cost and benefit of any such new rules).
this allows you to quickly get going and also be able to customize your business more in the future to the way you want it to be.
this entire fee goes towards building a settlement account and to the consolidator’s fees to “settle” your accounts in the future.
this phone doesn't pocket dial like every BB or other phone I have had so no more worrying about someone I haven't spoken to in three years hearing everything I say.
time coming up with her BMW Lovos concept, which can alternatively look either like a frightened porcupine or svelte salmon, depending on its needs at the time.
title=Repatriation&action=edit) , and the Soviet Union was to attack Japan within three months of Germany's surrender.
to clear pains & tightness now & in the future.
to cover an area the size of Norway and use 15 percent of its energy from renewable sources within a decade.
to have annuity payments made to me in the future, especially if I am under age 60?
to see if we need to set aside monies for the upcoming year 2010.
to sell submarines to Taiwan or help the island build submarines in the future.
to work with her if she continued in the future.
trollYou are not a "304" and you just need to make better decisions in the future.
troop withdrawals from Iraq yesterday, he also vetoed the first increase in the minimum wage in a decade.
unrest in the 20 year olds face.
until now, in my 10 years of watching the BPL, i have never met a Spurs fan in my nation.
use of energy, pollution of any kind and wastage of any form will be strictly taboo in the future.
used 57 billion board feet of lumber in 2003, the third all-time annual consumption record in five years.
usually you get your period within a year of getting armpit hair and hair down there hope that helps!
vice-president Al Gore delivered a major address last summer calling on his country to abandon all fossil fuels within 10 years.
was 21% in the three years ended with the 1st Quarter of 2001.
was held without a catch for the first time in 13 years and he probably won't be happy about it this week.
watch the reds be in this position in 5 years.
we are getting married in 8 months and are both verry experimental and curious.
we passed it and will be receiving our gc in the post in the next 2 months!
we want you to come back in the future, too.
we want you to come back in the future,.
well I haven't had a call from them in 3 months.
well I haven’t had a call from them in 3 months.
what a beautiful place, perhaps someday I’ll be lucky enough to visit.
what an exciting time ahead!
what other important things will they discover in the future?
when i was young, i used to dream of becoming a lawyer someday, and though there are so many constraints to put this dream into reality, i know someday i’ll get what i deserve.
whether its singing or head bangin' jamming or lan party shooter games in the future.
which is currently engaged in three wars of aggression and has occupying troops in a number of other countries, insists that Iran, which is invading and occupying no country, cannot be trusted with nuclear energy capability because the capability might in the future lead to nuclear weapon capability, like Israel's, India's and Pakistan'sall non-signatories to the nuclear proliferation treaty, co .
which is inc in a month or less?
will it affect the price in the future?
with a promise of a good life in the future.
with no charge to place ads now or in the future.
with over 24,000 hrs experience in 25 years.
with the United States in 30 years, due to start on October 1.
within a few years will lead to the creation of what the founding fathers of modern Europe dreamed of after the war, the United States of Europe.
within a year or two they have not only regained the weight they lost, they gain even more.
within five years.
within one year, portion of trade creditors and trade bills payable.
within three years.
years of over promising and under delivering, the solar Industry is finally starting to show some interesting developments which have the potential to make solar power as cheap as fossil fuel on a cost-per-watt basis within five years.
yeh the worst thing about c++ is the very-weird and seemingly random bugs that sometimes come up with your programs.
yes very aggravating, someday every single good name will be taken.
yet all still developed symptoms of SP within a few month.
you better hurray the memebership will expire in 6 months!
you come out of the closet when you win the first time in 6 years, and think you've taken over Texas, typical aggy.
you have just had your best league season in 43 years and still finished beneath the arsenal who according to the shit cunt media are in crisis.
you know 9 lbs lost in a month doesn’t seem like a miracle, but alot of people lost or remained the same weight through the Holidays when admitting to overeating.
you see yourself positioned in the future.
you’ll get there someday, ut for now, try getting your account up without even playing at http://gameolosophy.
{And I do hope for maybe a little pink in the future.
| Japan's lower house of parliament is expected to hold a vote which could yield the country's third prime minister in a year, and the sixth in three years.
| The reunions would be the first in a year, and a promising sign that the two Koreas are working to repair r.
| Vienna - Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries need to wean themselves from oil revenues in the future, OPEC chief Abdalla el-Badri said Mond.
|> in the next month or two?
What has to be remembered here is that at the start of the Arian controversy the establishment of a consensus on such great problems as the nature of the Trinity, the relationship between the divinity and humanity of Christ, was still in the future.
´The city cannot go back in what we have done in five years,´ says the official promotion of the Mayor.
· · What major changes do I anticipate occurring in the next six months to a year that will affect me?
·1/2 Price Cleaning within 6 months!
·PLUS: 1/2 Price Cleaning within 6 months!
Â Furthermore, if your audience values your commentary, they are far more likely to return to you rather than go to the original sources in the future.
Â I appreciate the work of the people in this room who've shown a willingness to make hard choices and do the hard work that's essential to overcoming the challenges of the present, while leaving our nation better off in the future.
Â IfÂ you think back on how civilization has changed in 500 years you will quickly realize what a waste management problem plastics will present if we continue throwing them away at the current rate.
Â When the economy recovers, Florida’s Chief Financial Officer, Alex Sink, hopes to seek funding and restart the program sometime in the future.
ÂHowever, if you are interested in possibly joining us in the future, please fill out the form below and we will keep your information on record until the next time we are actively recruiting.
ÂIf you cannot speak to someone by phone, it is a pretty good indication that you will not be able to reach them if you need assistance from them in the future or if there is a problem (such as an error) with your credentials.
ÂThe new shelter will enable Paws and Claws to play an even larger role in this area in the future.
Ã‚ example, You can write the goal of losing 50 pounds in one months, but the bottom line is that is not realistic or achievable goal.
β¦And I hope to see a full distance education CYC masters program in the future.
– and if he ever approaches any nationally elected political office in the future, you can be sure that there will be a lot more information posted here quickly.
–to be one someday.
— For the third time in four years, the Denver Broncos are dealing with the death of a teammate.
‘Initially, Bletchley Park had a staff of only two hundred, but within five years the mansion and the huts would house seven thousand men and women.
‘They have decided to attack at least two countries in the region in the next three months,’ Ahmadinejad said in excerpts broadcast on the rolling news channel on Tuesday.
‘Tv, as we apprehend it, can be unrecognizable in five years’, that in line with the opinion of Bill Gates.
’” “Democrats will finish their health reform efforts within the next two month.
“A lot of people say it is important to visit but maybe in a month or two when the cameras go away – we don’t know when is the best time,” Angelina said.
“A lot of them are going into science, mathematics, or engineering, and, a lot of what they will see in the Robotics club is something that will prepare them for what they will see in college and in the future,” he concluded.
“Although it is little asked, the question of where reef species go when faced with extreme environmental situations is highly relevant for understanding their prospects of survival in the future – and what we need to do to give them the best chance,” Prof.
“And if in the future I wanted a loving, enduring relationship with a significant other, I had to have that quality of relationship with myself.
“And there is no need to repeat, this power (of answering Rebbe type questions) is given over (to the local Lubavitcher Bais Din), if the time will come and when the time will come.
“And when you start talking about faculty members with PhDs, it’s hard to find 12 people in a year.
“At a time when the Americans for the Arts National Arts Index shows that because of the current economy support for the arts is at its lowest point in a decade, arts organizations have been relying on one area where funding has been on the increase—the leveraging power of federal funding for the arts and humanities.
“But be assured: our fight will guarantee the greatest outcome of outcomes; now, in the future, always and forever.
“Complying with the requirements of Goal 5 and the National Flood Insurance Program by managing development in wetlands, riparian corridors and floodplains demands thoughtful consideration of the associated benefits and costs, and opportunities and challenges, both to individuals and the community as a whole, now and in the future,” said Heather Hansen, Planning Manager.
“Doug asked me where did I see myself playing in the future, he told me about the Blaze and the past draftees and how long he has been dealing with players,” Miller said.
“Far And Away The Most Artistic Vampire Shocker In 10 Years!
“For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance to their own desires; and will turn away their ears from the truth, and will turn aside to myths!
“However, we can say with real confidence that, using our new technique, a quantum computer could, within five years, be performing calculations that are outside the capabilities of conventional computers,” he told the British Science Festival, as he presented the research.
“I ask my clients what it would be like to be doing what they’re doing—and more—in five years,” says Wallace.
“I guess we all had to grow up someday,” Buffy admitted sadly.
“I love competing in London especially as it’s going to be the Olympics there in two years time – I want to soak up that atmosphere early.
“I mean, we’re seeing it down now below the 10,000-mark for the first time in 10 years,” Brewer said.
“I predict that in the years ahead Enron, not Sept.
“I think it is very wise to accept that while the basic science is solid, we have no idea what is going to happen in the future.
“I used only 2 strategies and it will bring in over $7,000 in the next 3 months with no advertising costs.
“I will be working on [educating people to understaaaand those who want to kill US] in the future.
“I wish the club all the best in the future and now I have to find myself a new club.
“I would expect the presentation to generate some questions about specific applications attendees have seen, or might have opportunities for in the future,” he said.
“I would expect the use of these stents to expand dramatically in the next few years as more physicians embrace the technology,” Dr.
“If I made 11% in a year, I’d be committing hara-kiri.
“If their bylaws are different than what our bylaws are, those bylaws have to be amendment within a year.
“If this trend continues, then it’s quite likely that within two years Europe will equal North America in low-cost volumes, a scenario we would not have contemplated even five years ago,” said Glass.
“In a year where the number of top-rated schools fell sharply across the state, we have maintained a high level of performance at most of our facilities.
“In my 20 years of medical practice, Sono-Photo Dynamic Therapy (SPDT) is the most effective treatment for Prostate cancer that I have ever offered.
“In our retail segment, strong same-store sales of fuel (gallons) and merchandise helped to produce one of our best quarters at retail in nearly two years.
“In predicting recessions two or more quarters in the future, the yield curve dominates the other variables, and this dominance increases as the forecast horizon grows,” they said.
“In six years, he’s invested more than $14 million,” Ellis said.
“In the future those who oppose gay marriage now will appear as ignorant, mean, and foolish as those who opposed interracial marriage 50 year ago,” wrote Michael Stone in the Portland Progressive Examiner.
“In the future, I’ll be looking for more of that mid-priced cheese.
“In the next decade there’s going to be a lot of renewable energy built, and all that has to go somewhere,” said Jessica Goad, an energy and climate change policy fellow for The Wilderness Society.
“In the next few months, Congress will decide whether to continue supporting Big Bird – or give him the ax.
“In the next one year, we got the number five position.
“In two months, you go back into the studio with Satin to do her next album.
“It can become a very successful tourist attraction and help the city in the future.
“It measures how many inpatients you have in a year, adjusted for the outpatient workload and for the intensity of surfaces.
“It’s definitely an investment but it can be paid off in about seven years,” said San Francisco Assessor-Recorder Phil Ting, who led the solar task force that designed the program.
“Junk” being those things that you’ve hung onto that you “might use someday.
“Look at where we are today: Over the past seven-plus years, my administration and the General Assembly implemented the first rational school funding formula in 20 years; we developed new standards and the supports needed to help students, schools and teachers to achieve them.
“Maybe you will someday.
“Monday, new home sales jumped, the biggest monthly increase in eight years.
“NeNe perceives herself as a real socialite in Atlanta and she does not like the fact that Bryson’s arrest generated bad publicity for her and she is worried that he might get into more trouble in the future.
“Next year, we will continue with this type of demonstration as we are truly committed to support research in this area and make all SAS International flights as environmentally friendly as possible in the future.
“Nowhere else in 500 years has Brazil had popular architecture of this quality, says Posenato.
“Oh yeah, I can’t imagine in a hundred years he is going to miss Augusta.
“Our economy has expanded by more than 13 percent … This economic growth has led to record tax revenues, which has helped us cut the deficit in half three years ahead of schedule.
“Our parcel was completed in 22 months,” explained Sandau.
“Presently there are 725,000 patent applications awaiting first action [down from 750,000], which is the first time in a decade there has been a dent in the backlog.
“RPSEA would like to see the support and acknowledgement of fossil fuels needed for our nation’s energy needs today and in the future.
“Rather than invite an ugly situation in the future” with a mass influx of Latinos leading to a legislative backlash to shut it off, the Times argued that “it would be an act of prudence and foresight to stabilize hemispheric immigration at its present level [of 120,000] on a nondiscriminatory first-come, first-served basis.
“Re-authorization of HCRA is on the list of major challenges facing the executive and legislative branches in the next six months.
“Rosario Iglesias, a world-class runner in the 90 years-and-older category, has died in Mexico City.
“Since the victim said she had not had sex in six months and that she washed her blanket once a week, this means that the semen on the blanket could only come from the perpetrator.
“So who’s to say in 20 years whether our current limitations will be relevant?
“So you can see it’s all to make sure we can keep the bad man away from you in the future, so he can’t do this again.
“Someday these trees will be missed,” he’d explain to anyone willing to listen.
“Somedays he says we sound like a soggy cereal, which isn’t as good as we would want it to be,” she said.
“That has been squandered in a year’s time and replaced with great anxiety all around the world, not primarily about what the terrorist networks are going to do, but about what we’re going to do,” Gore said.
“The assistance of an outside expert will help the Housing Authority and the City to make all of our public housing complexes safer in the future.
“The scholarship keeps gaining speed and popularity and I hope to see this thing go national in the future.
“There have not been such campaigns in the 20 years that nongovernmental organisations have existed in democratic Russia.
“There was a time when we were not: this gives us no concern – why then should it trouble us that a time will come when we shall cease to be?
“These 200 people more than doubled their net worth to $1 trillion in only four years (1994 to 1998),” he says.
“They refused to take the Carter-era panel that we brought with us and said they would continue their deliberative process to figure out what is appropriate for the White House someday.
“This alarming consumption rate could, in the future, constitute a distended hurdle in the face of any plans to transform the country from being a consuming to a producing state.
“This book applies to anyone who has ever said, ‘Someday I’d like to run my own golf course.
“This is a great example of how investing in the future can pay immediate financial, social and environmental returns.
“This is the most significant Windows version introduced in eight years or more,” says Paul Firth, product manager at Accusoft Pegasus.
“Today, education is the best investment in the future for the Jewish people and for the future of the State of Israel.
“We aim to review books 2-3 months ahead of publication, and, alas, even then we only have room for one children's book review per week (that's 52 books out of 9,000 published annually).
“We are expanding our capacity to meet our customers’ requirements now and in the future,” Rasey said.
“We are honored to produce The Clark Sisters’ first national tour in 20 years, says Shawn Tate, President of Tate & Associates, Inc.
“We are planning another in the future for those who were unable to attend due to a limited number of reservations available,” Kathy noted.
“We are quite confident that even more options to gather the same data will become available in the future.
“We can’t wait to greet our first Powerball jackpot winner in two years,” Polston said.
“We don’t see airport will be impacted in the future,” he said.
“We look forward to many Opry performances in the future and to all of the bright moments that her future holds.
“We look forward to teaming with Austal for more innovative health programmes in the future.
“We look forward to working with him to promote bipartisan legislation that will lead to advances in our industry and the nation in the years ahead.
“We need to constantly remind people internally, and keep refreshing the idea that standards work is a strategic initiative, and we are investing in the future.
“What if instead of comparing the ratio between payment (car payment) and monthly income and calling it a day, you took that 16% and multiplied it by 240, the average amount of workdays in a year.
“What projections do we have in the future to pay for health care?
“What we have achieved in 10 months, we (would) like to achieve in (the next) five months.
“Whatever is beautiful, meaningful and brings you happiness and joy, may you find it this Holiday Season and may you be lucky enough to keep that with you throughout the upcoming year.
“When I design, I design with the mature plant in mind; it’s unfair to put in something that in five years will be out of control.
“When you give birth for the first time, you cannot fathom how you will feel about breastfeeding in a year,” says Laura Shive, a mother of three from York County.
“While the current technology may be quite expensive and not within reach for the average producer, we think that with further development this type of data will be available to the more-mainstream dairy producer in the future,” Kolb says.
“With Atlanta’s population expected to double in the next 25 years it is critical we meet the demand,” says new BOB director, Ibrahim Maslamani.
“With HDNet we will literally be pioneering the way we’ll all watch TV within a few years”.
“Within four months the heel pain from the plantar fasciitis had improved tremendously.
“Without a cure, in the next 25 years, an estimated 11 million will die from the disease worldwide.
“Work Ready demonstrates that Georgia knows what it is going to take to competitive in the future and we are preparing our workers and companies today.
“Yellow 10” (serial 836017) was delivered to Jagdgeschwader 26 in March 1945, within two months of VE-Day.
“You always expect some drop off, and we normally cull some clients anyway, but we’re looking to recoup our investment in a year and that wasn’t going to happen.
“You find a person who’s proud of the fact they haven’t been to the doctor in five years, and (an incentive program) gets them engaged before something happens to them,” Gregory said.
“You’re the same today as you’ll be in five years except for the people you meet and the books you read.
“… Hard to believe I’ve not spoken to Joe in 9 years.
“…Miami based Jen Stark’s vibrant oeuvre of the last few years comes full circle here with works that pay homage to her own prolific trajectory.
”  I predict that in the next few months big law will follow Larry’s lead.
” 4:21 Jesus said to her, “Believe me, woman, a time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem.
” And — truly — I don’t think its contents changed in 15 years.
” Andy Graham wants 10,000 creative people to move to Portland in the next five years.
” Balsillie did mention that RIM has some surprises coming at DevCon later this month and that BlackBerry Torch has created a increase in sales with 75 new carriers getting it in the next few months.
” He added that, “The time will come, we trust, in which all the churches will be given to Christ and his people, and no individual claim ownership in them.
” Hence, I highly recommend this book to those interested in the future of education – especially policy makers and educators.
” His agency saved over $20 million, jumped from a rank of 25th to #1 in performance and was the first state agency to win the Baldrige Award- all in only two years.
” How true; this emotional aspect to learning in MMORPGs may well provide a rich field of research in the future.
” I answer, “bout like always” and he says, “see you in a month”.
” If that war is to happen in our lifetime — much less in the next few years — that would have to mean that rockets, missiles and mortars are not being fired from Gaza day after day, week after week, year after year at innocent civilians in southern Israel.
” In the months ahead Frontline Fellowship will be working towards reprinting the Portuguese-Umbundu Hymnal which was last printed in 1982.
” In the three months Clockwise from the top; Owners of Mick’s Irish Pub: Nichole Demers, Brian Yeomans, Becca Jacobs and Edi Manga enjoy some drinks and food from their new menu (clock wise starting at the top; Atlantic Salmon, Teriyaki Salad, The Pub Club and a Shrimp & Scallop Boat).
” In the three years the credit union has been participated in the ride, they have raised nearly $150,000 to the Utah Chapter.
” In working with individuals now to correct false thinking and prioritize values, to repent of past mistakes, their children and their children’s children will reap the benefits of these biblical corrections in the future.
” Lawanna became an instant wife, pastor’s wife, mother and, within three years, mother twice again.
” She also commented that the move is about in 3 months time.
” She has a JOB, other interests beside having her pictures taken and posted online, sense of humor, she can write, doesn’t take herself too seriously, and sometimes comes up with really nice ideas.
” So is there hope for Omiya to someday be the capital of Japan?
” The USA moved into the speculation economy based not on “productive assets or past profits but on the possibility of profits to come at some unspecified point in the future.
” The author James Hugh Pruett cited the 1937 Maine almanac and opined that the “second [full moon] in a month, so I interpret it, is called Blue Moon.
” The opposition demanded a public referendum within five months on the government’s policies.
” They made the point that another corporation could come in, that this ordinance could protect them in the future.
” This is the first official logo redesign  for the brand in 29 years.
” This is the first official logo redesign for the brand in 29 years.
” This report highlights economic risks on the rise as a result of the financial crisis and suggests taking a long-term approach to risk, looking 10 years ahead, while also responding to the crisis of today.
” This report says that global oil supplies will indeed peak within a few years due to under-investment in new production and that this will mean the end of the oil age.
” Who knows, maybe someday soon these may become the focus of your time, energy, and advocacy too.
” Within 6 months I was barrel racing and pole pending like a pro.
” Within a year, Beekman had spent an additional £1,967 for “utensils, and creatures .
” You can defend without a defensive tone: “It is true that I made a mistake, and I appreciate constructive feedback to minimize errors in the future.
” You want to be ready when that time comes.
” someday, it has a nice ring to it!
” “To give attendees a perspective of what we know now and what we hope to do in the future,” Dr.
• "When I first started driving, who would have thought gas would someday cost 50 cents a gallon?
• 65% of healthcare products will be personalized in the next 5 years.
• 8 out of 10 new product launches fail within 3 months.
• 80% of bra-wearers who experienced lumps, cysts and tenderness saw the symptoms vanish within a month of going braless.
• A perfect example would be to maintain an account for each domain you are likely to sell in the future as a master account for things like Google analytics.
• A plurality of Chileans (42%) feel that their economic situation will improve within the next year, while twenty six per cent say it will take two or more years.
• A slight majority (52%) of respondents who say they have been negatively affected by the economic crisis believe that their economic situation will improve in the next year or less (33% within six months), whereas 19 per cent feel that it will take two or more years.
• Advising the Board of Education as DCPS crafts the budget for the upcoming year.
• Americans don't know if they'll have a job in 6 months.
• Are you making plans at least six months ahead?
• Avoid the frustration of making mistakes that you will need to "unlearn" in the future.
• Broaching Future Plans: When discussing plans that will take place in a year or more it is important to pay attention to your gent's reaction.
• Broadband connections over DSL double in one year (/Article/2199645/Sectors/25202/Broadband-connections-over-DSL-double-in-one-year.
• CalPERS can also require repayment of a performance award, with interest, if within three years of the payment it is discovered the employee was not entitled to the award because of a policy violation.
• Can you be charged for statutory rape twice within 1 year?
• Climatechange2  (2283 followers): Electrical power cuts within 6 years in Britain.
• Considering the way in which dementia care will be organised in your country in the next 5 years, how feasible is implementation of this recommendation within 5 years in (parts of) your country?
• Could this volunteer job be a springboard to a paying career in the future?
• Decisions of the FPSC have been and, in the future, may be adversely affected by the political, regulatory and economic environment in Florida and elsewhere and may adversely affect the financial condition and results of operations of NextEra Energy and FPL.
• Deposits/retainer fees are non-refundable/non-transferable but may be applied to future services within 6 months of the original date on which the reservation was made and for the same vehicle or larger, in the event of cancellation, with the exception of weddings and proms and may not be used for airport service.
• Each certificate will require successful completion of 8 workshops (including 1 certificate-specific ethics-related workshop) within 6 years of enrollment.
• Earn $100 in rewards - that's 10,000 bonus points after you spend $500 in 3 months!
• Find out which publications we plan to release in the future.
• For cancellations received at least two weeks before your personal retreat, half of the required deposit will be charged as a processing fee, and half will be credited to any other program within one year.
• Francessa actually contemplated whether Jose Canseco may end up in the Hall someday because, in addition to his career, he blew the whistle on everything, regardless of his intentions.
• Gain an analytical insight into the major factors affecting the Czech Republic logistics market, both currently and in the future.
• Gain an analytical insight into the major factors affecting the Estonian logistics market, both currently and in the future.
• Gift certificates and any unused portion of a gift certificate expires within one year from the date of issue (or the earliest date permitted under applicable state law, whichever occurs later).
• How will our applications map look in three years' time?
• I do hope you get to visit the Philippines someday.
• I received your scroll today and its fantastic, really first class, i'll gladly recommend you to friend and family and will use you again in the future.
• Identifying the measures of an excellent public school system: for example, 80% on-time graduation with 92% daily attendance within seven years.
• If Summers and Geitner haven't turned the economy around in 1 year, Moore will be calling Obama out on this harder than ever, but at this point, he supports Obama.
• If all ice cream consumed in one year was put into cones and stacked up, the tower would reach to the moon and back.
• If you are planning to make your move in the next 6 months or less, you'll need to organize yourself quickly.
• In 1993, the government implemented the Service Area Scheme, which required the installation within three years of 300,000 land lines by new international gateway facility operators, 400,000 land lines by new cellular licences and 700,000 land lines by firms with both cellular and gateway licences.
• In a year or two, Hamas and other terrorist organizations will be able to shoot rockets not just at Sderot and Ashkelon as they do today, but as far as Ashdod and perhaps Beersheva, with strategic sites nearby.
• Integrated Professional Competence Examination (IPCE): A student will have to appear for the IPCE after fulfillment of following conditions: PCE is conducted twice in a year, May and November.
• It makes projections to show you what your options will be worth in the future when your company's stock hits key price points.
• I’m voting Democrat because I believe that people who can’t tell us if it will rain on Friday can tell us that the polar ice caps will melt away in ten years if I don’t start driving a Prius.
• Jaago Re, a fight against corruption, boasts of over 5000 members within a month of its launch and is growing rapidly.
• Just one-quarter (25%) of Mexicans who say that have been negatively affected by the downturn expect their situation to improve within the next year and 69 per cent do not expect an improvement for at least two years or more (64% two to three years).
• Less than half (47%) of Americans negatively affected by the recent economic developments expect the situation to improve within a year or less, while nearly the same number (46%) believe it will take two years or longer.
• Maximizes your buying power immediately, especially if you expect your income to rise quickly in the next few years.
• Maybe Gallas realised he could win more in one season at Spurs than he could manage in 5 years at the scum?
• Missing Issues: Will be replaced free of charge if a request for replacement is received by the publisher within 3 months of the date of issue for domestic and Canadian subscribers and with 6 months of the date of issue for others.
• Money saved by resolving customer complaints and reducing comebacks pays for the machine in one year.
• Notice must be revised by intermediary to provide instructions on how investor requests paper copies from intermediary, how investor votes through intermediary, and how investor notifies intermediary if the investor wants paper copies for all stocks held in that account in the future.
• Of the majority who feel they have been negatively affected by recent economic developments, 68 per cent are optimistic that their situation will improve within a year, while 24 per cent expect the situation to take two years or longer to improve.
• Of those Canadians who feel that they have been negatively affected by the economy, 53 per cent say it will improve within a year or less, while 40 per cent say it will take two years or longer.
• Of those Russians who feel they have been negatively affected, 27 per cent believe their situation will improve in a year or less and 39 per cent feel it will take two years or longer.
• Of those negatively affected, half (50%) believe that their situation will improve after two to three years or more, while 36 per cent say they believe their situation will improve within a year or less.
• Of those negatively affected, half (50%) believe that their situation will improve within a year or less, while 28 per cent believe that their situation will improve only in two years or more.
• Of those saying they have been negatively affected, less than one in four (23%) believe their situation will improve in a year or less, while a majority (61%) believe it will take two years or longer.
• Of those who feel negatively affected by the economic crisis, 61 per cent say it will take two years or longer (28% three or more years) for their situation to improve, while 17 per cent say it will improve in a year or less.
• Of those who say they have been negatively affected, 72 per cent believe that their economic situation will improve within the next year (33% within six months), while only 17 per cent believe it will take two years or longer.
• Of those who say they have felt negative effects from recent economic developments, 82 per cent are optimistic their situation will improve within a year (50% within six months), while just fifteen per cent believe it will take two years or longer.
• Only one-quarter of respondents (25%) who felt they have been negatively affected by the recent economic developments believe their situation will improve within the next year, while a majority (61%) feel it will take two years or longer.
• Other groups angling to open new schools include Eva Moskowitz’s Harlem Success charter network, which is seeking  $25 million to open 13 in the next five years, and New Visions for Public Schools, which wants $26 million  to create charter schools that serve 10,000 city students.
• People who chew tobacco seeing what their mouth would look like in 20 years without teeth and having dentures and the things they could no longer do.
• Possession will be given with in 36 months from the start of Construction.
• Seems to me that expecting to pay off your startup costs/tool costs in a month, while ideal, is not how most people would deal with it (or should in many respects).
• Seventy eight per cent of Brazilians who have been negatively affected are fairly optimistic that conditions will improve within a year (44% within six months), while only 15 per cent believe it will take two years or longer.
• Seventy five per cent of Ghanaians who feel negatively affected by these economic developments believe their situation will improve within one year (32% within six months), while twenty per cent believe it will take two or more years.
• Seventy-onecompaniesdisclose they maintain an executive compensation clawback policy (an increase from 56 companies in 2009and35in 2007 — representing a 103% increasein four years).
• Slightly more than half (51%) believe their economic situation will improve within the next year, while 41 per cent believe it will take two years or longer.
• State Paid – The state of Maine will cover the course cost if you become employed as a nursing assistant within one year of passing the competency exam.
• Staying at a friends place who I hadn’t seen in a few years, her room was too messy to sleep in so instead we slept in the back room on the floor or outside in a dirty old ute on a tarp.
• Stop being ridiculous y’all, that doesn’t look like a bag with blood not in a million years, unless you carry powder blood flowing within your veins.
• THE MAYOR WILL MAKE A BOLD STATEMENT ON THE ARTS WITHIN TWO MONTHS OF HIS NEW ADMINISTRATION BRANDING DC AS A “WORLD-CLASS CULTURAL CITY.
• Talk with your child about school, friends, and things she looks forward to in the future.
• That color Jeep was only made in one year.
• The United States bans federal recognition of homosexual marriage through the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act, which precludes spousal immigration sponsorship of homosexual partners, even if they were to gain official marital status in another country in the future.
• The budget deficit will increase dramatically due to the problems in the economy and in a few years time the interest on the Federal Debt is likely to be higher than tax revenues.
• The city is asking for $40 million to open 150 new small middle and high schools in the next five years.
• The collective members of June of 44 put out enough recorded output in a year to feed the world's poor with the fragments of nutrition they might get from eating vinyl and compact discs.
• The company can vary the amount of surplus depreciation taken in any one year up to a cap of $267 million in the first year, provided its ROE remains within the range of 9 percent to 11 percent.
• The parents will not be able to cooperate in the future decision-making required by an order giving joint legal custody.
• The presence of systemic symptoms, including fever higher than 38°C, night sweats, and/or weight loss of more than 10% of body weight in the 6 months preceding diagnosis, are denoted by the suffix B.
• The purchaser can acquire less than 100% of the company initially and have the option to buy the remaining interest in the future.
• The toll-free number is active within a few minutes after you sign-up, and expires one month after the event date (up to one year in the future).
• Thing: What May Happen in the Next 100 Years  by Ladies’ Home Journal, 1900.
• Those saying that they have been negatively affected are optimistic that their situations will improve in the near future – 83 per cent say their conditions will improve within a year or less (60% in the next six months), while only twelve per cent say their conditions will take two or more years to improve.
• Those saying they have been negatively affected in Japan are largely pessimistic that their situation will improve in the near future – 69 per cent say their condition will only improve in two years or more, while just 9 per cent say conditions will improve within a year.
• Time is coming… Oktoberfest is coming…Arrive in time!
• Tractor (1934), and Pyramids (1935) These two works achieve a fragile balance between faith in the future, founded on the Communist ideal, and personal despair.
• Unless you ask us not to, we may contact you via email in the future to tell you about specials, new products or services, or changes to this privacy policy.
• Unwilling to commit to future plans such as trips, concerts or other events that take place at some point in the future.
• We are working with the national and international bodies to reach zero carbon emissions within 50 years.
• What could begin to a 14 month dated toddler if the mother and.
• What would you like to do in the next year?
• Where will you be in one year, three years, and five years from now?
• Will this procedure affect my ability to have children in the future?
• Will you be investing more money in the future?
• With persistent offenders, you may need to start charging interest to act as a deterrent in the future.
• Within 3 months of commencement of business at the Employment and Training Board under the provisions of the Business Trades and Professions (Registration) Ordinance 1989.
• Within a few months, now former talk show host Don Imus’ on-air “nappy-headed hos” insult to the Rutgers University women’s basketball team dominated the airwaves and the streets.
• Within one year, BCSO will collaborate with a local advocacy group for the hearing impaired to obtain information and materials to incorporate into the training curriculum at the BCSO law enforcement academy.
• Within one year, BCSO will provide refresher training to all supervisory and dispatch personnel concerning standard operating procedures for communicating with persons who are deaf or hard of hearing.
• You must post at least 1 new thread in the board within a month of its creation.
• Your BookClubbing note will go out in a monthly newsletter to over 23,000 registered book club leaders.
• any big club win nothing in 4 years, sack the manager….
• as from the date of use of the first coupon, if such use occurs within one year of the issue thereof.
• when you register on the Site that you are happy for us to send information to you in the future.
• will be doing 30 to 38 potential shows on the east coast coming up in the next few months.
• “Changing education” shows what educators and researchers in various settings are doing to support learning, and what they hope to do in the future.
• “I too would like a Nobel Peace Prize for the thesis I am about to write in the future.
• “In three months I’ve gone from network television to Twitter to performing live in theaters, and now I’m headed to basic cable.
•E W Dijkstra Where a calculator on the ENIAC is equpped with 18,000 vaccuum tubes and weighs 30 tons, computers in the future may have only 1,000 vaccuum tubes and perhaps weigh 1 1/2 tons.
•Unemployment storm worst in 26 years (news.
… I look forward to working with you in the future.
… We’re not actually told that Tiny Tim has died in the future, he’s just not there.
　　The agreement lays out a set of guidelines that Greece will be expected to follow if it were to be given financial support, most probably from Germany, France and some other eurozone countries, at some stage in the future.
